Petros Kausiyo Deputy Sports Editor ZIMBABWE Rugby Union (ZRU) president Aaron Jani is optimistic that their turnaround programmes will be quick-fix solutions that will convince World Rugby to increase their annual grant to the country. Jani said World Rugby, who together with Rugby Africa supervised their elections, had also given his executive a roadmap to follow as they look to turn around the domestic game. World Rugby cut by half the grant they give to the union, largely as a result of the mismanagement that had characterised the previous ZRU executive led by Nyararai Sibanda. “World Rugby gave us a roadmap that we should qualify for the World Cup in the Sevens, the Under-20 and the Sables in order for us to get back the old funding levels or even get more. “But I must say the response we have received since coming in has been very positive and we also know there is a lot of work to be done. Gweru and Bulawayo which used to be hubs of talent had deteriorated and we really need to work hard there,’’ Jani said. Rugby in this country had in the last year, been torn apart by infighting which subsequently cost Sibanda his presidency of the union. But since that morning of December 2 at Prince Edward when former Zimbabwe international Jani, swept into power, a silver lining has been shining through the dark clouds that engulfed rugby last year. Although Jani was eventually elected unopposed following a last-minute withdrawal by his rival Russell Karimazondo, the way his running mates — Martin Shone and Lawson Mtongwizo — also swept aside their opponents underlined the popularity of the new leadership with the electorate. Jani told The Herald that he has an ambition to restore the glory that made rugby an attractive sport in the country. At the peak of its powers, the country’s flagship team – the Sables – were World Cup material and such a fine brand that lured full houses at Hartsfield in Bulawayo, Old Hararians, Police Grounds and Harare Sports Club. Jani wants a return to those good old days and reckoned that if the reception his executive has been given since their election is anything to go by, then the good times are set to roll again. There are also expectations that Jani who was credited with the success that the Under-20 team enjoyed when winning three successive editions of the Junior Africa Cup between 2009 and 2011, will transform that fine run to all facets of the game. Jani was chairman of the Under-20 committee when the Junior Sables enjoyed their finest moments by qualifying for the Junior World Cup on a regular basis Yet the Harare businessman, is under no illusions of the mammoth task he has to revitalise Zimbabwean rugby and even appealed for patience from both the stakeholders and the fans as they rebuild the game’s structures and reputation. Jani’s decision to immediately set up an organising committee for the Sables, also seems to have charmed the players who are in the country and those dotted around the world with many expressing a desire to play for the national team. “It’s a unique situation where we have a big chunk of players who are dotted around the world and doing very but have not been able to represent their country. “Even here at home there a lot of talented players but the biggest challenge has been the absence of the Inter-cities league and as a result we have had hare province doping well with about 12 teams while Bulawayo has just four. “But we are working on reviving the Inter-Cities and looking for the sponsorship that will support the clubs with transport and accommodation.’’ Jani is however, happy that financial institutions giants Old Mutual are taking care of the development aspect of the game. “In development Old Mutual have come in a big way and we are grateful for that,’’ Jani said. He also expressed concern with the problems haunting the game in Bulawayo and said a restoration committee had been put in place to revive the game there.