Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter SCOTT Vincent and Mark Williams managed to make the cut at the ongoing R15 000 000 purse BMW SA Open Championship at Glendower Golf Club in Johannesburg, South Africa yesterday, with the former shooting a sizzling six-under 66 in his second round to take his overall total to eight under. Vincent moved into contention at the 107th edition of the Sunshine Tour, European Tour co-sanctioned tournament that had 156 players when the opening round teed off on Thursday and were reduced to 69 players, including ties yesterday. The 25-year-old Zimbabwean followed up an opening round two-under 70 to be at eight-under-par overall and had an opportunity to spend over two hours on top of the leaderboard. Vincent made seven birdies and a bogey in his second round and was tied for third with joint first round leaders Brendan Grace, who was able to only make a one-under-par 71 on Friday morning and Chase Koepta of United States. The trio also found themselves a single short behind former Cape Town Open champion Jacques Kruywijk of South Africa as they began to drop when the afternoon field started to tee off. Today’s round will give the local a good challenge as he will play in the same ball with players in the top five and as the second last ball, where support and pressure from spectators will come hard on him. Chris Paisley and Adrien Saddier took the lead after they carded 65 and 63 respectively, to take their overall tally to 13-under. South Africa’s Ratief Goosen was not to be outdone in his home country and he carded an impressive ten-under overall. Italian Renato Paratore made a big move early in the second round after shooting a five-under-par 67 that included five birdies and an eagle, while South African Rhys West was also on the move in his second round. He made seven birdies and a bogey through 16 holes. The cut later on moved to level par and another local, Williams, who started with a level par returned with a two-under 70 during yesterday’s round. Williams will be among the players who will tee off early this morning. Marc Cayeux, who completed the local contingent representatives failed to pull through after a disappointing four-over, which he followed with a five-over for an overall nine-over.