Dr Parirenyatwa Paidamoyo Chipunza Senior Health Reporter The United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) has pledged vaccines against cholera and typhoid amid recurrent cases of the diarrhoeal diseases in the country. Briefing Health and Child Care Minister Dr David Parirenyatwa during a cholera Press conference last week on the agency’s response to the outbreaks of typhoid and cholera in Harare and Chegutu, Unicef country representative Dr Mohamed Ayoya said vaccination for typhoid and cholera was an effective way in preventing the diseases. “Before the minister came in, we were talking of a possibility of us having a vaccination for typhoid and cholera in the affected areas and those at high risk. The colleague from WHO (World Health Organisation) will consult the regional office and if they are agreeable of course we can support that,” said Dr Ayoya. Dr Ayoya said cholera was a deadly killer and poor sanitation and hygiene, which characterises some suburbs in both Harare and Chegutu where these outbreaks have so far been recorded, were major drivers. He said although vaccination of high risk populations is an additional tool for controlling diarrhoeal diseases, provision of safe water and proper sanitation remains critical and the best. “The use of oral cholera vaccine (OCV) is considered as an additional public health tool to usually recommended cholera control measures such as provision of safe water and adequate sanitation,” he said. According to Unicef, the use of OCV vary according to the country and context and is currently being used in neighboring countries experiencing cholera outbreak. It said in any setting, initial consideration to use OCV should be based on a sound risk assessment that clearly outlines cholera epidemiology and trends, the capacity of the community and national mechanisms to prevent and control outbreaks. It is also based on the feasibility of conducting a cholera vaccination campaign and attaining good coverage and relevance of OCV with respect to competing public health priorities. “It takes the fulfilment of the abovementioned considerations and subsequent decision by the national authorities. And then coordination with WHO at country and international level for the vaccines to get to Zimbabwe,” said Dr Ayoya. He commended Government of Zimbabwe for its quick reaction to the outbreak saying usually, some Governments deny existence of the problem thereby allowing it to get out of hand. Government and the emergency working group have since agreed to Unicef’s proposal and will be looking into it, together with WHO, which normally provides technical support. Zimbabwe has so far recorded about 65 cases of cholera and four deaths, all confined to Chegutu since the beginning of the month and over 2 200 typhoid cases in Harare since October last year.