Minister Mandiwanzira Africa Moyo Business Reporter Zimbabwe is set to host the Data Centre Africa Expo conference – the first ever in the country – as part of efforts to grow the data centre market and to update players in the ICT sector of developments in the industry. The Data Centre Africa 2018 is set to run from February 7 to 9 in Victoria Falls. It is expected that 234 exhibitors would attend the conference. Data centre refers to a large group of networked computer servers typically used by organisations for the remote storage, processing, or distribution of large amounts of data. Organisers of Data Centre Africa 2018, say they are working around the clock to bring President Emmerson Mnangagwa as the guest of honour. Information Communication Technology and Cyber Security Minister Supa Mandiwanzira, is also expected to be part of the cast of high profile speakers during the conference. One of the local organisers told The Herald Business yesterday that they were still waiting for confirmation from both President Mnangagwa and Minister Mandiwanzira on their availability. “But all I can say is that Data Centre Africa is a first of its kind to be held in Zimbabwe. The objective for the conference is primarily to grow the data centre market and also conscientising the ICT industry of the development centred on such initiatives,” said the official. The conference attracts leading innovators, solutions providers, location agencies, power companies, infrastructure and connectivity leaders, data centre service firms, cooling specialists, European and global organisations, investors, data centre audit firms and government agencies. Also expected to attend are data centre managers and senior IT professionals from enterprise, public sector and small businesses, chief technical officers, IT directors, infrastructure managers, purchasing managers, facilities managers, network systems and security professionals, project managers and engineers, data centre investors and others. Top international ICT firms are also expected to attend the Data Centre Africa 2018 expo, and their managers are optimistic of recording brisk business. Dermat Limited chief executive officer Mr Dave Howe said: “We are looking for a place that is a premium vehicle for our products, a wide demographic to grow our business and two days’ worth of sales leads to growth over the next 12 to 18 months and that is exactly why we are at Data Centre Africa 2018. “We have had great conversations and looking forward to creating business with the leads generated from the two days (conference),” said Mr Howe. Similarly, Rene Electronics business development manager Mr Jack Peckham also said: “Data Centre Africa conference is the go to event for exhibitors in the data centre sector. “We want to see the event grow and develop into a leader of all data centre industry events and that’s why we exhibit here. The event will definitely not disappoint, we are looking forward to see many clients and customers . . . this will lead to lots of visitors coming to ask questions, new networking opportunities and leads.”