Correspondent Namibia last week rolled out the red carpet for new Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who came around to engage the Namibian government on a variety of issues, including the transition in his country. “The Crocodile”, as President Mnangagwa was known during the liberation struggle combat days, has been visiting southern Africa to expose his blueprint for the country he took control of in November last year. President Mnangagwa’s ascendancy to power is as encouraging as it is inspiring. While there are voices of dissent from some quarters — regarding how President Mnangagwa took over the reins of power, the general populace of Zimbabwe seems excited and hopeful for the future. Zimbabwe, on account of its land distribution programme, was slapped with monstrous sanctions by Western nations. Alleged election fraud, destruction of tens of thousands of low-income homes in Operation Murambatsvina, were further cited as other reasons for the sanctions that, at a deeper level, were actually aimed at punishing black people in that country. Many countries in the West opened their doors to white Zimbabweans so that they may live in such countries – sustained by their governments. Black Zimbabweans who had education and the means to leave the country embarked on a mass exodus as they sought greener pastures elsewhere in the world. This was because the situation at home became unbearable, owing to sanctions that were clearly designed to punish not only government, but indeed its people too — the majority of whom happen to be black. The price that blacks paid included the destruction of their economic and social lives, and humanitarian suffering for all. Claims by the West that these were “targeted sanctions”, in a bid to paint a picture of an intervention aimed strictly at government, were a blatant lie. Against this background, Africa and the world at large need to help President Mnangagwa to rebuild Zimbabwe. Africa in particular has the obligation, for its own sake, to make Zimbabwe great. It was encouraging to see world leaders falling over each other to congratulate President Mnangagwa on his ascendancy to power, and promising to work with his government, economically and otherwise. Just this week, President Mnangagwa is among leaders from highly developed nations in the world at the World Economic Forum’s prestigious 48th Annual Meeting in Davos, Switzerland. The Herald newspaper reportedlast week that this was the first time since independence in 1980 that an invitation to this event was extended to Zimbabwe. The fact that the AU and SADC have recognised President Mnangagwa as president of his country makes life easier for other nations, and indeed investors, to start dealing with Zimbabwe. Legitimacy of political leadership is essential for investment and the economic stability of all nations on earth. Namibia would certainly not have rolled out the red carpet if questions lingered over President Mnangagwa’s head over legitimacy. President Mnangagwa also confirmed last week that Zimbabweans should brace for harmonised elections in the next five months, which should be transparent, free and fair for the progress good of the country. These are all positive signs that warrant full support for all Zimbabwe’s endeavours. — New Era