Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor— THREE weeks after shipping highly-rated Zimbabwe international footballer Kundai Benyu to a struggling English third-tier side in danger of relegation, Scottish champions Celtic are set to complete the signing of Belgian youth international Charly Musonda on an 18-month loan deal from Chelsea. Benyu and Musonda, who are 20 and 21 respectively were born in Europe to Zimbabwean and Zambian parents respectively and while the former has chosen to play his international football in the colours of this country, the latter appears geared at representing his country of birth Belgium. The two have been creating profiles for themselves as football prodigies with Celtic handing Benyu — who was born in Camden Town in England on December 12, 1997, to Zimbabwean parents — a four-year deal when they signed him from English Championship side Ipswich Town on June 29 last year. Musonda, who is the son of former Zambian international Charles Musonda, is a year older than Benyu and was born in the Belgian capital Brussels on October 15, 1996 and after penning a lucrative five-year deal with Chelsea he is now set to be loaned to Scottish champions Celtic. The deal is scheduled to be completed today and the Scottish giants will pay a significant portion of his Chelsea wages for the next one-and-half years and also a loan fee. “It’s a really exciting prospect for the club,” Celtic manager Brendan Rodgers told Scottish TV. “Charly is a big talent I’ve known for a few years now. He’s really one of the shining lights within the Chelsea academy and has progressed through, had various loans out and has then been a part of their first-team squad. I think there was up to 24 clubs interested in taking Charly so for him to want to come here and Chelsea to happily want him to come then it’s a great coup for us as a football club. “It’s also a great opportunity for Charly to come into one of the great clubs and get the opportunity to show his talent. He’s a really exciting player, really dynamic, wonderful ability on the ball, works very hard. Loves his football, he’s a bright player. “We’ve maybe been unfortunate this season with injuries whereas last year we got lucky. We’ve had a number of injuries to our creative players so him coming in will add that creativity to our game. I’m really excited to work with him.” With Musonda and Benyu, who has featured twice for the Warriors in friendly matches, playing in the same position, Celtic’s decision to send the Zimbabwean to a struggling English One relegation-threatened side, Oldham Athletic, on loan just a few weeks before bringing in the Belgian midfielder was always going to generate debate. Especially after the decision by Rodgers to send Benyu on loan to the English League One side came just five months after the coach revealed the Zimbabwean midfielder’s standout performance in a 0-4 defeat by French side Lyon in a friendly match had forced him to change his initial plans to send him on loan upon joining the Glasgow giants. Benyu insisted he wanted to remain at Parkhead rather go out on loan. “I loved it, it was a good experience. I wasn’t expecting to start but I knew I’d be involved. I was happy to take part and play 70 minutes which was good for fitness,’’ he told the Scottish media. “Impressing the manager was my main objective. He wasn’t sure if I was going to go on loan but I’ve come in, worked as hard as I can so I’m happy to stay and fight for my place. I’d much rather be settled in Glasgow with the boys playing every week in the league. Given time, working as hard as I can in training and listening to the gaffer and his advice I think I’ll be able to get in the team as much as I can. But I think I’m ready to step in now if I have to, if the gaffer calls upon me. The main objective is to keep working hard every day.’’ Now that Benyu has been loaned out to a struggling lower league English side facing relegation by the same Celtic side that appear to have found real value in Musonda, questions are inevitably being asked: With the debate over how Warriors captain Knowledge Musona’s failure to take his talent to another major European league, after his arrival in Germany at TSG Hoffenheim still alive, Benyu’s case — especially against the background of Celtic’s investment into Musonda — makes very interesting reading. Of course, Benyu still has age on his side and he can work his way back to the top.