Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S senior women softball team will miss out on the forthcoming World Championships after coming third at the WBSC Africa Division qualifiers held in South Africa over the weekend. The event was staged in Pretoria with four countries — Botswana, Lesotho, Zimbabwe and the hosts taking part. Only the top two teams — Botswana and South Africa advanced to the championships to be hosted by Japan in August. Zimbabwe, after a nine-year absence from international competition had hoped to defy the odds and book a place at the global event. But after such a long time away from competitive tournaments it was always going to be difficult for the side. They lost to eventual winners Botswana and runners-up South Africa to finish third in the four-team competition. Zimbabwe were defeated 15-0 by South Africa in their opening match before going down with the same score line to Botswana. They then beat Lesotho 22-12 before they took on South Africa again and lost 15-0 again. Zimbabwe suffered a 17-0 defeat at the hands of Botswana in their second meeting. However, they managed to beat Lesotho 9-5 in the third and fourth play-offs. With the top two teams only qualifying for the global show-piece, Zimbabwe will not be part of the countries that will converge in Japan in August for the main event. National teams’ manager Kudzionera Madhodha, who travelled with the team said while their lack of competition came back to haunt them. “We had a young talented team, full of vigour and very spirited. All teams fielded world class players but were failing to break them in the first innings only to crush them when they were tired. “Hard work pays, we have to increase our game time. Our kids lacked endurance. They could hold the teams in the first innings but around the third innings they would be tired. “We need more camps for the national team and we also been to buy equipment and training kits. With time we hope the team matures because some mistakes they made showed that they lacked experience and game time,” said Madhodha. Botswana were the winners after beating South Africa 16-1 in the final match. The two countries will represent Africa at the World Championships. The qualifier initially set to feature seven countries saw only four countries battling it out for the for the two slots to the World Championships after the other three — Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania withdrew from the event. Madhodha said they are now shifting focus to the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo. But noted a lot of work needs to be done to expose the team to high level of competition if they are to qualify for the Games. “We are starting practice as soon as possible. We have invitations from Botswana. We are going to push and work hard. The local leagues will be running full-time . . . game time is needed and we will strive to give the girls the experience they need,” Madhodha said. The senior women’s side is expected back home today.