Cde Mutsvangwa Manicaland Correspondent A South African company, COEGA Development Corporation, will assist Manicaland establish a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) to boost infrastructural development in the province. Addressing stakeholders during a briefing at the provincial administrator’s office in Mutare on Monday, COEGA legal representative Advocate Jack Matiza said they were interested in upgrading infrastructure in industrial areas and ports of entry. “Our vision is to become a strategic partner of the Zimbabwe Government. We want to establish a relationship where we can bring in investors from the countries in which we have been operating over the past 20 years,” said Mr Matiza. “I am from this province and it is good that we are starting with Manicaland. What we want to do is to build a Special Economic Zone in Manicaland equivalent to COEGA Development Corporation in South Africa. “We look forward to partnering the Zimbabwe Government, starting with Manicaland. We believe that there are a lot of economic opportunities in Manicaland that need to be unlocked.” COEGA also pledged to work on the Zimbabwe-Mozambique border posts. “Lack of infrastructure has hindered a lot of people from using the Manicaland border posts. We want to bring world-class infrastructure so that Manicaland Province may become the economic hub for the region. We will also do road rehabilitation and reopening of the ailing industries. All we are waiting for is the signing of the papers and we hit the ground running,” said Mr Matiza. Manicaland provincial administrator Mr Edgars Seenza said the investors came through Minister Monica Mutsvangwa’s office, which is spearheading a local economic revival programme in line with President Mnangagwa’s approach. “We had a meeting organised by the Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Cde Monica Mutsvangwa. The main objective was to look at the expression of interest by COEGA Development Corporation of South Africa,” he said. “They want to assist Mutare to develop and establish a special economic zone and industrial park. Key stakeholders in Mutare have accepted that idea and a letter of commitment will be prepared, while a technical team has been established to spearhead the investment programme. “We are looking forward to seeing Mutare benefiting in a number of ways that include the revitalisation of some of our industries, as well as our airstrip and border posts.”