Munashe Tsitsi Ndabambi Sometimes wearing the same old clothes or following a normal routine is boring and melancholy. Therefore, adding zest brings a lot of zeal, beauty and confidence. Those little things that we take for granted can be life changers. In steps in a young beautiful soul who can make all old things sweet as his summer soul! This is what Munashe GoldFurnace Wazara is doing with his attractive shoe art. His creativity has changed the definition of plain canvas shoes making them more appealing to the wearer and indeed the beholder! His artwork, as he labels it, is not about making a statement but rather communicating his appreciation for shapes, colours, beauty, nature and a lot more which may mean different things and interpretations for the people who go on to wear his painted shoes.  Munashe fuses art and fashion. His handcrafted customised shoes are sold per order usually through his Instagram platform and he delivers them to the owner. The personal touch makes one feel more than loved; more than needed! Instead of working with the normal canvas on an isle, he opted for working he opted for the shoe canvas using special permanent paints also applying other artwork techniques such as fabric collages giving each pair a unique finish. In Munashe’s work no two pairs will ever look alike. He believes that having an artistic outlook in life means having means of creative expression as well as the capacity to appreciate the art that constantly surrounds us. He works with different themes and his latest one is the “New Zimbabwe” where he used the Zimbabwean flag colours in different patterns.  “I like themes that revolve around beauty, colours and patterns such that on my upcoming shoe art exhibition, which by the way will be my first one ever, I will tackle social issues and norms in society. “I usually receive positive responses to my work such that I almost expect it! “I will never forget the negative one once after finishing what I thought was a masterpiece and the owner nastily said ‘wanga washaya zvekudrowa here?’ (Did you run out of things to draw) “Now that person will be walking barefoot for the rest of their life! “That same pair which featured a seminude model was bought by a Zambian tourist for a handsome price, that’s when I realised that one man’s meat is surely another person’s poison.” Munashe also paints portraiture even on shoes; before a nasty breakup with his university sweetheart he was fused in love that he painted her portrait and since then he has not stopped painting people. For him, the artistic world requires a lot of meditation and development of ideas which require time. However, he paints wherever he is given the tools. He even sometimes invites a friend over for company when he is working from home. If he does not like his art piece he normally starts afresh. Munashe hates the fact that a lot of his work has not been discovered as yet so maybe when he does his exhibition the world will get to know more about him. His talent lies in doing a lot of research on crafts and techniques, researching on general knowledge issues as he loves to stay informed and self-educates along the way; and of course his most inspirational book is his Bible. Munashe, who is also a rap musician, has a goal to convert all artistic talent into its monetary value by fusing fashion and art. “Eventually I will create employment for several painters at GoldFurnace Shoes and have unique artistic products which can be worn as fashion and appreciated daily,” he said, “I am following my heart. Life is for living, my mother told me so.” Comparing himself to Jean Michel Basquiat, Pablo Picasso and Peter Berch in his inspirational place; his studio, Munashe with his wand in hand- the art brush and paint pallet-is changing the fashion world.