President Mnangagwa Innocent Ruwende and Virginia Kashiri The Zimbabwe Amalgamated Churches Council (ZACC) has urged Zimbabweans to be peaceful before, during and after the forthcoming harmonised elections. This follows the pronouncement by President Mnangagwa that Zimbabweans should brace for harmonised elections in the next five months, which should be transparent, free and fair for the progressive good of the country. Speaking after a stakeholders meeting in Harare, the organisation’s patron Cde Jimayi Muduvuri said the Church was playing its part in praying for peace. “We do not want any violence to take place in the upcoming harmonised elections and we hope for the best for our nation. We, therefore, call upon all stakeholders in Zimbabwe’s electoral processes which include the voters, political parties, churches, business, civil society, donor institutions and the media to contribute meaningfully towards the holding of peaceful and credible elections in the country,” he said. Cde Muduvuri said as ZACC patron, he was urging the Church to speak with one voice because they would not be recognised if they spoke in their individual capacities. The Kadoma businessman donated houses and residential stands to clerics in Kadoma and Norton. Pastor Nyasha Chivhuna of Mugodhi Apostolic Faith Church said the church yearned for peaceful elections. “As churches we understand that true leadership comes from God and all we have to do is to support and pray for whoever God chooses for our nation. We also pray for peaceful elections,” he said. Turning to the meeting, Pastor Chivhuna said they were summoned by their patron Cde Muduvuri to acquaint themselves with the objectives of ZACC and to find ways of uniting different congregations. He said churches could support the nation if they worked together. ZACC chairperson Mr Richman Nyamombe of Zviratidzo Zvavapositori said the purpose of the meeting was to unite the church. “The purpose of this meeting was to handover houses and stands to the church leaders and to figure out the number of people in Harare only and almost 200 came,” he said. “We shall be doing these workshops in different provinces encouraging people to be united and support each other. As for the upcoming elections, we have faith that everything is in God’s hands and free and fair elections will be held.” Apostle Rose Kazembe, the founder of Restoration International Ministries, said Zimbabweans should respect their leaders. “We also believe that leadership comes from God himself and we respect whatever decision he is going to make so we just pray for free and fair elections without any violence taking place,” she said.