Minister Moyo Patrick Chitumba Midlands Bureau Chief All is set for the meeting between President Mnangagwa and the country’s traditional leaders, which will be held in Gweru today, Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister July Moyo has said. The meeting is part of a programme to solicit views of different communities and interest groups. President Mnangagwa will also brief them on his administration’s vision and expectations. In an interview yesterday, Minister Moyo said the Zanu-PF Convention Centre along Mvuma Road, popularly known as The Winery, was ready to host the President and the traditional leaders. Drafting of the programme has also been completed. “Yes, we are ready in terms of preparations to meet the President with the traditional chiefs. I am at the venue and everything is in place. The programme is also complete. Some traditional leaders have booked into hotels and lodges for accommodation, while others are still on their way,” he said. Accreditation of the traditional leaders and delegates attending the special meeting is already underway. Minister Moyo said President Mnangagwa will also be distributing the first batch of vehicles to the chiefs. “This is the first batch of vehicles for our traditional leaders. Some will receive their vehicles while we wait for the next batch of vehicles for the other chiefs. Soon, every chief in the country would receive his or her vehicle,” said Minister Moyo. This will be President Mnangagwa’s first meeting with traditional leaders since coming into power in November last year. Presidential spokesman Mr George Charamba said in a recent statement the meeting will enable the President to brief chiefs on his vision and acquaint himself with different players and interests in the country. “As part of the ongoing programme to connect and acquaint himself with the thinking of different echelons, interests and players of our nation, President Emmerson Mnangagwa is scheduled to hold a day-long indaba with the country’s 282 chiefs in Gweru on January 13, 2018,” Mr Charamba said.