Benjamin Lock Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S Davis Cup team had their first session together yesterday at Harare Sports Club following the arrival of Benjamin Lock and Mehluli Sibanda over the weekend for the Europe/Africa Group II tie against Turkey. Zimbabwe take on Turkey this weekend in the Europe/Africa Group II first round at Harare Sports Club. Lock was in Turkey where he was playing tournaments as part of his preparations, while Sibanda was in Bulawayo. The other two members of the team are Takanyi Garanganga and Mark Chigaazira, who comes in as the new face to the team. The two have been in the country for some time, working out at Harare Sports Club in the past few weeks. Lock comes in as Zimbabwe’s best ranked player at 463 and played some of the Turkish team players during his just ended tour. Garanganga is ranked 506 while Chigaazira is 1364. Sibanda has just graduated from the juniors. “They are bringing five players and I played three of the five. I played the number three, four and five players. And actually in Thailand I practiced a lot, I played a practice match with the number two player. ‘’So I got to see how he plays and vice-versa but it was good. And speaking to them, they are obviously strong on paper, they are the favourite nation according to the rankings. But they have a lot of respect for myself and Takanyi and our team. “They know coming here it’s not going to be easy for them at all. So they are bringing their full squad and they are prepared for a very tough match. So, just being back here and training hard with the team, I think it’s going to be key this week and it’s going to come down to the wire I think, for the Davis Cup, which is obviously going to be very exciting,” said Lock. Turkey’s team — to be led by captain Haluk Akkoyu — includes Cem Ilkel, their top player ranked 265, Marsel Ilhan ranked 320 and Altug Celikbilek ranked 425. Sarp Agabigun ranked 884 and Tuna Altuna, who is not ranked in the singles completes the team. Zimbabwe are ranked 73 and Turkey are 49. But Lock said although their opponents are ranked higher than them it will all come down to how they perform on the day. “There is absolutely no difference…the good thing is it’s going to come down to the day, how you perform on the day, how you perform under pressure. “Playing in a professional tournament and playing Davis Cup it’s two completely different things. “Playing for your country there is extra pressure, the stakes are higher. But for me playing at home I embrace the pressure and the crowd and I feel very comfortable and confident in these courts. “And in some regards we are actually favoured because of where the tie is being played,” added Lock. As the team came together captain Gwinyai Tongoona is in agreement with Lock and is not reading much into the rankings. Turkey were expected in the country late yesterday.