Elita Chikwati Senior Agriculture Reporter Agriculture experts have advised farmers not to worry about the erratic rainfall pattern being experienced in most parts of the country as they could plant short season varieties and small grains and still get meaningful yields. Farmers can also get high yields after planting sugarbeans, sunflower and cowpeas. Agriculture expert, Mr Ivan Craig yesterday told The Herald that farmers could continue planting summer crops, but had to adjust on the varieties, fertiliser application and plant population. “It is unfortunate that the rains were not good for agriculture in terms of their volumes. Maize should not reach the tasselling stage in the sun since there will be no pollen to fertilise it. If affected by the dry weather conditions, maize can also have prematurity tasselling and this affects yields. For farmers who are willing and are in warm areas that do not experience winter early, it is possible to continue planting,” he said. Mr Craig said with the seasonal rainfall forecast of normal to above normal in the last half of the season, farmers could take the risk and plant short season varieties and small grains. “When planting now, farmers should not apply the normal fertiliser amounts they would have applied if they had planted early but may reduce the amount per hectare. “For instance, instead of planting with 400 kilogrammes per hectare, farmers can plant with 250kg per hectare so that the yield loss is compensated for by the less fertiliser applied. We hope it continues to rain into April. “Farmers should also adjust the plant population per hectare and plant slightly less plants per hectare,” he said. Mr Craig warned that the current weather conditions were ideal for the multiplication of crop pests and diseases and farmers had to be on alert for early response. Zimbabwe Farmers Union executive director Mr Paul Zakariya urged farmers to consult agriculture extension officers for advice when carrying out any agronomic practices to avoid incurring losses. “The season is far spent. Those that have irrigation can proceed and plant short season varieties otherwise it will not be advisable for farmers to plant without advice. Farmers should also demand weather information that can help them in as far as their work is concerned,” he said. According to the Meteorological Services Department the rains that are being experienced in some parts of the country are worrisome, since the volumes are low and not adequate for plant development. The Zimbabwe National Water Authority latest dam level update reveals that there has not been much change in water levels in the country’s major dams, despite the rains being received in some parts of the country. “While no significant changes have been recorded in the dam levels, most of the dams have sufficient water to meet the urban and irrigation water requirements,” said Zinwa. According to the Famine Early Warning Systems Network, the bulk of the country has so far received below normal rainfall since the start of the 2017/18 rainfall season in October. Mashonaland West Province (the highest maize producer) is the worst affected, having received significantly below normal rains. Because of low rainfall, planted area is atypically low in some areas, especially in the north. Crop germination and establishment in some areas has been and continue to be affected. Moisture stress is being experienced for crops at the early vegetative stages in some areas.