President Mnangagwa Patrick Chitumba Midlands Bureau Chief President Mnangagwa is set to meet the country’s traditional leaders in Gweru tomorrow, as part of a programme to get the views of different communities and interest groups. He will also brief them on his administration’s vision and expectations. This will be President Mnangagwa’s first meeting with traditional leaders after being sworn in as President in November last year. The Deputy President of the Chief’s Council, Senator Chief Ngungumbane, said they had been holding preparatory meetings in Gweru. “I can confirm that the preparations for the meeting between President Mnangagwa and the traditional leaders are at an advanced stage,” he said. “The team in charge of preparations is already in Gweru, where it is holding meetings.” Chief Ngungumbane said the team had even toured the venue, Zanu-PF Convention Centre, popularly known as The Winery, along Mvuma Road. “We have been to The Winery, which is the venue of the meeting, and other sites,” he said. “We are busy with logistics, but we can safely say we are ready to meet the President.” Chiefs in the Midlands province said they were excited about the prospect of meeting President Mnangagwa. Chief Gwasela of Zhombe said he was optimistic that President Mnangagwa was going to address some of their challenges as a matter of urgency. “This meeting is coming at the right time for us and we are optimistic that our challenges such as lack of vehicles, electricity will be addressed by the President,” he said. Chief Chireya from Gokwe North said he was optimistic that the President was going to address the issue of land invasions. Further, Chief Mazvihwa from Zvishavane said he was positive that President Mnangagwa would push pro-development projects ahead of the 2018 harmonised elections so that the ruling party resoundingly won the elections. In a statement recently, Presidential spokesperson Mr George Charamba said the meeting would enable the President to brief chiefs on his vision and acquaint himself with different players and interests in the country. “As part of the ongoing programme to connect and acquaint himself with the thinking of different echelons, interests and players of our nation, President Emmerson Mnangagwa, is scheduled to hold a day-long indaba with the country’s 282 chiefs in Gweru on January 13, 2018,” Mr Charamba said. “The President is expected to take advantage of the meeting to get views and expectations of different communities on Government’s performance and services, while also briefing our traditional leaders on the vision, programmes and expectations of his new administration and these relate to rural areas where the majority of Zimbabweans live.”