Blessing Chiduuro Tsitsi Ndabambi Humans of Harare is a Facebook page which belongs to Blessing Chiduuro who shoots extraordinary pictures of ordinary people who we can classify as everyday people. Unlike the “normal” polished subjects with the photographer ready with a script for the studio or an on location photo shoot, the lively work of the 26-year-old Blessing is never enough to digest, his one thousand plus audience cannot wait to view more of his images. Not only do these images come with relevant captions, they are accompanied by unedited raw phrases and quotes from the hearts of the image beholders. And the main heart of reference is his own! Inspired by the images that he saw from several talented photographers whom he trailed on social media platforms, it was a dream come true for him when he bought his new camera and immediately started doing random shoots without contemplating. “I found random shoots less awkward than having to instruct a person on how to pose for a photo hence my decision to take a picture of people in the streets and move on to the next one in a nomadic manner than to be stationed in a place and plan for what may be deemed as a perfect shoot,” he explained. “Expressions of a random person are more genuine as compared to planned shoots.” “In planned shoots the person cares more about how they will look in their picture so they try to be as perfect as possible before the shoot spoiling their natural look. My favourite photographers Tino Nyandoro and Donald Chipuma have played a big role in my work as a self-taught photographer; they helped me with tips and ideas with the help of my very supportive wife and friends who are always there to critique or compliment my work moulding me into a successful “socialprenuer” if a word like that exists.” Blessing, who grew up in the sunshine city, is in love with the place and is always ready to explore areas where he has never been to from the dingy parts where homeless people live to the leafy “posh” suburban areas where the “haves” reside. As the nomadic photographer moves around with his camera, he gets to interact with people; “Some talk about their jobs or personal lives; others ask me questions on why I walk around taking pictures and some stop me and ask to see the images that I would have taken.” One of his images is of a homeless teenager called Simon who like any other person has a big dream, “Take a picture of me looking tough. I want to be an actor one day,” he is quoted as saying. Touched by Simon one of the subscribers response by writing, “Yes Simon, you will be an actor one day. Never stop dreaming, all things are possible.” Another image which looks like it is ready to be placed on a billboard for mobile phone company advert is that of a vendor with the name Mary and her beaming smile proudly showing off her merchandise. The image attracted a lot of public attention with comments flying in every day. Blessing says that his work has helped raise awareness about how other people are living their lives which has made him appreciate his own lifestyle after listening to sad stories that they share with him, this has also changed his view of an ordinary person that we walk past that we should never underestimate them based on what they do or what they look like as they might have wise words to share. Sometimes he comes across people who are not comfortable to have their pictures taken for fear of having them published in local tabloids missing a chance of sharing their great stories. At the same time he gets to learn a lot from the numerous people that he interacts with every day. What fulfils him are the comments that people post on his social page about his images and the accompanying stories. His audience is growing everyday which is evidence that the public appreciates his art. “On some pictures well-wishers actually ask for contact details or a person’s location so that they help them. It feels good knowing that you are playing a part in changing someone’s life.”