Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis We have opened the gates for 2018. We don’t just open half way no we want to open them all the way! In this time of the year when most people are making prayers and declarations for the year, let it not be a time you take lightly. Declarations are powerful! Declarations backed by action will make your year different — the year of Restoration! It is also a time when many reflect and ask God for grace to shed off old and bad habits and reach forth for a new character, Christ-like character. We move from glory to glory, faith to faith. It’s also time to let go of the past and to cast off unconfessed sins which are a hindrance to success, progress and prosperity in life Proverbs 28:13. Reader, I’m also praying for you, that your year be unique, blessed and fruitful through God’s Restoration! “And when he came to him, behold, he stood by his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said unto him, What hath the Lord spoken? And he took up his parable, and said, Rise up, Balak, and hear; hearken unto me, thou son of Zippor: God is not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he should repent: hath he said, and shall he not do it? or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good? Behold, I have received commandment to bless: and he hath blessed; and I cannot reverse it. He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob, neither hath he seen perverseness in Israel: the Lord his God is with him, and the shout of a king is among them” Numbers 23:17:21 You see verse 21 says I have not found inequity in Israel, which is something important in life! Live in such a way that your adversaries will find no iniquity in you, no evil or wrong thing. Even though whilst you are minding your own business someone is busy declaring and saying, ‘ah this one must not prosper in life!’ You are striving hard to keep a good family and raise your children well yet someone is going to the witch doctors and saying, “Let James, let Susan, amount to nothing in life!” Come on what have I done you wrong? I am just taking care of my life and family. If you are going through a case like this my prayer for you today is that let no inequity be found in you, child of God. Let no inequity be found in your life and family! Don’t panic and begin to seek charms against your adversaries No, you are different. You trust in the Lord your God, alone. You are a child of Light, O hallelujah! You may think ah no-one minds me I mind my own business. Friend, life doesn’t operate that way. There are some people whom you never talk to yet they just get bored with you. Either your dress, you car, your house, or even your hairstyle bothers them from nowhere. They look at you walking, lovingly holding hands with your spouse and get bored and decree we want to see where it will end! (tiri kuda kuona kwazvinosvika!) You tell them, ‘O my child passed with 4 units, O my child passed all 8 O level subjects and inside they say, we will see! (tichaona kwazvinosvika). They curse in their hearts and speak negative over your life, job and all that concerns you even if you think you did them no wrong! Let me explain something about a curse. You see, a curse not what we think it is. We usually think of witches, hyena’s owls, yes the enemy may use those in line with curses. But a curse is just words. Negative words backed up by evil spirits. Today 14 January we break every curse and every negative word spoken against you in Jesus name. However, God is expecting you to do something you never did in your life, something different in 2017. Turn loose all those that hurt you and spoke evil of you and let them go from your heart. Forgive. 2017 is the year of restoration. Don’t continue carrying the piles and heaps of past hurts and offences! Let me elaborate and get closer to home. The person, who hurt you at your workplaces and spoke bad staff and even hindered your promotion turn loose that person. The person who bewitched your father, turn loose. Yes your father is suffering right now and in pain because of that person but God wants to do great things. O hallelujah! Turn loose. But Bishop you can’t say that do you really understand our family issues? You see late 2016 when I was praying I saw that many blessings came to people but they could not receive. Do you know why? Why some missed it in 2016? — hurts! At times being hurt just comes! No notice at all and yet in some instances you don’t even know how you were offended, neither are you able to trace it. You just find yourself hurting, low, discouraged, frustrated and stuck in life. I have a good word for you 2017 turn loose. Let no inequity be found in you. Give the enemy no room to have a hold on you. Turn loose. Turn loose your parents, yes they judged you, angered you, and compared you to other people! Turn lose your spouse, yes you were taken for granted — but turn loose. Turn loose that supervisor at work, s/he spoiled things for you yes you could be somewhere now, but turn loose. That neighbour, that friend who betrayed you, that relative who never came back with your money! Even that reckless driver who caused the dreadful accident, hard as it may seem — turn loose. A huge blessing awaits you this 2018 — forgive, let go. For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27