Mr Kaseke Business Reporter The Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) says it will capitalise on its participation in this year’s edition of Feira de Tourism/International Tourism Trade Fair (FITUR) to be held in Spain, to market the country in a bid to regain lost global market. FITUR is the leading trade fair in Spain and number three in the world after Internationale Tourismus-Börse Berlin and World Travel Mart London. Last year FITUR attracted 9 893 exhibiting companies from 165 countries/regions, more than 135 858 trade participants and 107 213 public visitations. Among the participation figures, of note was the increase of 18,8 percent in international trade visitors compared to the previous staging. Currently, the Spanish market contributes 6,5 percent of all Zimbabwe tourist arrivals from Europe and is the sixth largest contributor of arrivals from the bloc after the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, France, Benelux and Italy, contributing 36 percent above the previous year. “Participation at FITUR will help the authority to push forward the tourism agenda to the Spanish market and to the rest of the world. “The platform will also present an opportunity to engage various UNWTO member states to rally behind Zimbabwe as the destination seeks to regain the lost market in tourism development,” ZTA chief executive officer Karikoga Kaseke said. Dr Kaseke said the players in the tourism sector have also supported Zimbabwe’s participation in the fair. “Tourism operators said that it is critical for destination Zimbabwe to leverage on opportunities like FITUR given the positive developments brought about by the new dispensation. “The era has since proffered intensive positive publicity with various markets displaying excitement and interest in ‘the new’ Zimbabwe. The country’s participation at this year’s edition of FITUR is essential from a networking and business perspective, while it also presents a perfect opportunity to explain the new dispensation to the global family of tourism,” he said. The fair will also be a space for Zimbabwe to enhance its multi-lateral ties with a number of countries. Newly appointed Tourism and Hospitality Minister Prisca Mupfumira, will lead the Zimbabwean delegation as well as officials from the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority.