It is natural to have a desire to know what the future holds; it is not demonic. It is a divine instinct placed in you by God to want to know what is going to happen tomorrow. You should not fight that feeling because it is Godly. That is what also makes God very comfortable; He is not stressed or depressed, not just because He is stronger than all of us, but because He knows what is coming in the future. Knowing what is going to happen tomorrow can stop any suicidal attempt. What makes one kill himself is not because of the current situation, but not knowing the future situation. When you are able to see what is coming, you would not want anything to mess around with your life because what you might be currently going through is simply a phase. Jesus taught us a very strong prayer when He taught us to ask the Father not to lead us into temptation, as if God leads us into temptation sometimes. (. . . And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil. Luke 11:4). When God is leading you, He does not lead you into temptations, He leads you through temptations. God does not pick you from one place, drops you into problems and leave you there; He leads you through, not into problems. What you are currently experiencing in your life whether spiritually, financially or mentally, it is simply a phase. God is not leading you into those experiences but He is leading you through. If you look at how things are designed in the spirit, there is no problem that is permanent. In history, there has never been any problem which was permanent. Every crisis you face, it is your responsibility to investigate the nature of it. In simple terms, a crisis is simply a problem. It is an unpleasant experience, anything that affects you in a negative way is a crisis. You have to understand that an unmanaged crisis will eventually manage you. A crisis requires management because if it is not properly managed, it will manage the people. One might ask if it is possible to have a crisis free life. If you are going to have a crisis free life, it is not proof that there is no crisis, it is proof that you have managed crisis. You will always have crisis; even Jesus said that we will always have trials, tribulations and persecution but how you manage crisis is what matters. You will experience crisis as a child of God, but it is high time you understand how to manage every crisis you face. You should not leave crisis unattended, attend and pay attention to crisis. Denying that you have a crisis cannot solve it because crisis does not respond to denial. For you to be able to solve a crisis, the first thing you need to do is acknowledge the presence of that crisis in your life. You should not act like there is no crisis in your life, acknowledge its existence in your life, which is the most important key. Accepting that you have a crisis is not a sign of weakness. Most people deny the existence of crises in their lives because they think if they admit that they have a problem it shows weakness on their part. Accepting and acknowledging you have a crisis is actually a sign that you are strong because then, you will be equipped by God to face the crisis because you would have accepted its existence. God will then empower you to face it. You should never deny that you have a crisis, know it and acknowledge it. When a doctor tells you that you have a condition, he would have told you that you have a health crisis. Denying what the professional doctor would have told you about your condition is not a demonstration of faith. You should not argue with professional people because they have experience in what you would be going through and they can define it very well for you. If the doctor tells you that you just have seven days to live; denying it to his face is not faith, but rather foolishness. Faith is not what you say to the doctor, but to the condition. You should not argue with a professional. You do not face the professional and argue with him, you face your condition and argue with it. Most of what you say to the doctor about your sickness does not really matter, but what you say to the condition. You should not behave foolishly before professionals. Let the doctor know that you are an informed person who knows what he is doing. The people coming in your life to help you identify your crisis are probably trained to help you in case you are not aware that you have a crisis. Arguing with professionals does not help you come out of that crisis. You should not insult people trying to help you with your crisis calling them liars. Even if you live past the time the doctor gave you; that does not make him a liar because there is always room for God to intervene and change your story after the professionals have done their part. You have to listen to somebody who is trained and more informed in areas where you are ignorant. Receive guidance from them and appreciate them for their efforts in helping you. After you have acknowledged that you have a crisis, you need to identify the location of that crisis. You have to understand that you do not have crisis in every area, but in certain areas. It is not everything about you that is wrong. There has never been a person in such a situation where everything about him is wrong. You have to repent from believing that everything about you is wrong. If you are not careful, people can make you think that you are wrong in everything you do. When you do not have anybody congratulating you over anything you have done, you will begin to think that you are not good at anything. There are certain areas of your life you are managing very well and you need to identify them because you are not always failing every day. There are so many things you have done right in life, but did you manage to celebrate all those areas? The devil has not managed to defeat you in every area, but what have you done in terms of making an announcement that God has given you victory?