Temba Mliswa Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter PARLIAMENT has instructed football stakeholders to solve their internal issues with the ZIFA board that is currently in office since it has the mandate from FIFA and Government to run football affairs in the country. This was after some stakeholders, who attended yesterday’s Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Education, Sport, Arts and Culture, led by Lifelong Footballers Trust chairman Francis Zimunya, responded in the affirmative to a question by committee member Temba Mliswa that the Philip Chiyangwa board was ushered in office constitutionally. The legislators, through the chairman of the portfolio committee Kennedy Musanhi, also told the stakeholders to uphold their constitution and to recognise the authority of the leadership that was put in place by the football constituency, from where they also come from, instead of embarking on personal wars to the detriment of the game. Parliament also declined to entertain the dispute between ZIFA and the long-standing creditor with arrears accrued during the previous administration since some of the cases are now before the courts and have also been dealt with in the previous sitting. ZIFA and Sports Commission are also scheduled to appear before the same committee to give their oral evidence. The stakeholders that appeared yesterday included legends and former players represented by July Sharara, John Phiri and Eric Aisam, Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters Association’s Fortune Bgwoni, former ZIFA administrators Lazarus Mhurushomana and Richard Maseko among others. They raised a number of issues including accusations that ZIFA had been hijacked by non-football people, alleged violation of the ZIFA constitution, vote-buying at the last election and challenged the association’s plans for this year’s election. Committee chairman Musanhi said the stakeholders who gave evidence should prove the allegations of corruption if they have tangible evidence and follow the right channels by reporting to the Sports and Recreation Commission, Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission and even the Zimbabwe Republic Police. Musanhi said the purpose of the portfolio committee was to help ZIFA and its stakeholders to work together to advance the development and success of football in the country and not to aid internal strife by entertaining unsubstantiated claims. He said ZIFA have their internal structures to deal with grievances and also urged stakeholders to use the provisions in football statutes to approach the portfolio committee, Sports Commission and FIFA where they felt short-changed. He also said the fact that some of the debtors had taken legal recourse made it impossible for the Parliament to discuss the issues. “We want to discuss issues to do with football, not something that is before the courts. “Is football developing or not? That’s what we would want to hear and see how best we can assist as a committee,” said Musanhi. Committee member Mliswa said it was difficult for the committee to discuss matters that are before the courts of law after one of the creditors Daisy Rusere had testified that her case with ZIFA was being handled by the courts of law. “I think it’s important to observe the laws of this country. “Parliament is guided by the courts, we are also under the courts, so we cannot preside over a matter which is before the courts. You came before us and I think what is important is for the chairman to see what recommendations from us can help you. Parliament is not a debt collecting agency. We cannot be used for that. I think that is very clear. “You go through the courts and you have to wait for the final determination of the court, like the chairman has said, because (if we go ahead and discuss those issues) we will then be sued by the other parties that you have taken to court. We are a Parliament that upholds the Constitution of this country and equally respect the Judiciary which is also another arm of the State,” said Mliswa.