In all the planning you are doing for this year, the most important thing you need is determination. You may want to move your life forward, but until you are determined your life is not going anywhere. If you plan without determination, you are going to continue planning until you die without seeing the fruition of your plans. Raise your level of determination, how strong and how far are you determined? It does not matter how big you have planned, as long as you are determined you will still make it. Whatever you are planning it has to emerge from the foundation called determination. Are you going to be determined at any cost? How far are you willing to fight for your plans? God has given you a dream, an idea or a thought; He has shown you your way, but how determined are you to pursue it? If your plan needs money, how much are you willing to part with to get that plan fulfilled? If it needs time how much of it are you willing to sacrifice to get that plan to come to pass? Determination is the first qualification that you need for your plans to be fulfilled. Make your determination visible to people around you. Even if you might not have any other qualification, determination itself can become the qualification needed. People will have to know that whatever you set your mind to do, you will not back down until it is achieved. Some people fear too much, imagine that guys out there are even into selling illegal drugs like marijuana and cocaine and they are determined. Yet you want to do the right and legal things and you are afraid. What are you afraid of? If people can put such determination in illegal things, imagine what you can achieve if you channel your determination towards good things. Sometimes if you are not sure about your ability look at the way people look at you. What do people say about you when they look at you? You can pick some prophecies from people by the way they talk to you. It was not Joseph who said that he was going to rule over his brothers, it was his brothers who asked if he was going to reign over them. You have to listen to what people say in your presence about you, it is prophetic. Sometimes you can be carrying an anointing that you are not even aware of. You are afraid to face life and yet God has equipped you with a certain measure of ability and power that stops at nothing. If you look inside of you, you will see that there is enough energy that God has already given you. In the book of Judges 6 Gideon was running away and hiding from the Midianites, he was afraid. But the angel followed him up in his hiding place and told him that he was a man of valour. A man hiding in a cave and running away from situations and circumstances of life, but the heavens looked at him and called him a man of valour. Sometimes it does not matter how many times you have been running away from that situation, you are still a man and woman of valour. (And the LORD looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites: have not I sent thee? Judges 6:14). Gideon was not even aware that he had the power already to conquer the enemy. You are not going to be fasting and praying for another grace and measure of anointing because it is already there. The power you have already is sufficient to face the enemy. It is better to have a person who is determined than to have one who is busy planning and organising things, yet he lacks determination. We all make plans, but not all of us are determined to pursue our plans. If there is something wrong in your family, what are you going to do about it? There is poverty in your generation, but what are you going to do about it? Do not act like any other person in your generation because you are different from them. Are you going to wait for God to raise another person to deal with your family’s situation while you are there? Gather all the courage left inside you; you might have been beaten, but you are not yet out, you might be lying on the floor, but you are not yet defeated. Look in the inside of you, there is still more power left to fight and win. In your journey of putting your life in order, never should the devil lie to you that you do not have to plan, but just put your life in the hands of God. There are some who think that making plans is actually working against the will of God yet that is not the case. You have to pray and plan then you pray again for the execution of your plans. Praying without planning is like putting fertiliser in a field where there are no seeds sown. If you pray continuously and yet there are no plans in place, your prayers will be aiming at nothing. If you aim at nothing you will surely hit the target called nothing. Your prayers will focus at nothing unless there is a plan. If there is a plan then your prayers will be channelled towards achieving certain goals. If you shoot arrows at nothing you will hit nothing. You must have something to pursue so that when you are praying, you will be targeting that thing. If you want to fail in life do not plan because failing to plan is planning to fail. Certain people think planning is a way of disturbing the plans of God upon our lives. They think you just have to wake up and let God do the rest, yet they have been doing that and God never did the rest. If you do not have a plan for tomorrow, somebody is going to come into your life with his own plan. He will drag you into it and you will pursue other people’s plans for the rest of your life. Your own plans and destiny will be left unattended.