Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE batsman Peter Moor says the Chevrons are confident they will bounce back to form when they take part in the Triangular One Day International cricket series starting on Monday in Bangladesh. The Chevrons were set to leave for Bangladesh last night and will get the ball rolling in the series that also includes Sri Lanka when they face the hosts on Monday. As they return to One Day cricket after a disappointing tour in South Africa for the four-day day/night test match in Port Elizabeth, Moor said they are excited about the series. “I think everybody is very optimistic about this trip. We are a good One Day team and we have had good success in the subcontinent last year so I think everyone is looking forward to the series and it’s nice to be playing with a white ball again. “Even though we didn’t perform to what we had hoped in South Africa, we still have a very good One Day side and I know we are going to pull up some very good performances over the next month,” said Moor. Zimbabwe are also upbeat ahead of their match against Sri Lanka whom they beat in a historic five-match series last July. Moor is confident they can repeat the same achievement. “I don’t see why not, I think we have proved to ourselves and to everybody that we are capable of beating Asian sides in the subcontinent, in their own conditions. “So I don’t see why we can’t beat them again and I think morale in the side is very high and everybody is looking forward to the challenge of playing Bangladesh and Sri Lanka,” Moor said. After the series in Bangladesh, Zimbabwe will head off to United Arab Emirates to take on Afghanistan in a five ODIs and two-Twenty20 International before they return home for the World Cup Qualifier warm-up matches at the end of February. The qualifier will see 10 countries fighting for the two tickets available for the 2019 ICC Cricket World Cup to be hosted by England and Wales. “I think for us we are seeing it as the start of the tournament almost, we are taking these games as massive preparation to work out different combinations and to make sure that we are in the best possible mind frame come the qualifiers. “So this series and the Afghanistan series are very important in terms of qualification for us,” reckoned Moor. The Chevrons takes on Bangladesh on Monday in the first match, before they take on Sri Lanka two days later. They play Sri Lanka again on January 21. Zimbabwe will then have a day’s rest before playing Bangladesh for the second time. The final is scheduled for January 27. All matches will be day-night games and will be played at the Shere Bangla National Stadium in Mirpur, Dhaka.  