Paidamoyo Chipunza Senior Health Reporter Although the use of contraceptives in Zimbabwe is at 84 percent, unmarried adolescents who might need them to prevent pregnancies still have no access, Amnesty International has said. Presenting their latest report titled, Lost without knowledge: Barriers to sexual and reproductive health information in Zimbabwe last week, lead researcher Ms Louise Carmody said difficulties in accessing contraceptives had seen adolescent girls exposed to harmful consequences such as birth complications and even deaths. Ms Carmody said key barriers to accessing these contraceptives were on inconsistencies with current laws, lack of information, taboos on sexuality issues and costs. “Although Zimbabwe has one of the highest rates of contraceptive use in Southern Africa, unmarried adolescents who want to prevent pregnancies are not accessing the contraceptives they need, she said. Adolescents are also indicated to be at high risk of maternal morbidities, including obstetric fistula.” According to demographic health data for Zimbabwe, nearly 40 percent of girls and 24 percent of boys are sexually active before they reach the age of 18, which is the age of sexual consent. Ms Carmody said although the legal age of consent for sex is 18 years, most adolescents thought they could not access contraceptives before they reach that age, yet they still indulge, leaving them exposed to early pregnancies and associated complications. She said entrenched taboos around adolescent sexuality and unaffordable healthcare were also making it harder for adolescents to access information and services they need. “Despite Government’s commitment to providing access to contraception and free maternal healthcare, fees are often charged to compensate for funding shortfalls, thereby disadvantaging pregnant adolescent girls resulting in delayed access to maternal health services or young people not receiving care at all,” she said. Amnesty International urged Government to urgently address identified barriers to accessing sexual and reproductive health services.