READY TO RUMBLE . . . Elvis Moyo is oozing with confidence ahead of his January 26 fight against DRC’s Knife Didier Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter SOUTH African-based Zimbabwean boxer Elvis “Bomber” Moyo and Knife Didier of the Democratic Republic of Congo will know of the purse they will trade leather for when the sponsorship package will be unveiled this morning. The boxers will meet on January 26 at the City Sports Centre in Harare, with the local heavyweight looking forward to defend his World Boxing Federation All-Africa heavyweight title that he won spectacularly in his homecoming show five months ago. Moyo, who is also an EFC mixed martial artist, reclaimed the belt with a stunning display to stop Kenyan Bernard Adie at the Harare International Conference Centre in his maiden fight in front of his home supporters. The Bomber’s fight will be the main event of what is expected to be an interesting and entertaining night of boxing with two title fights in a total five bouts. The event, dubbed the New Dawn, is part of the Friday Fight Night Pan African boxing series, a collaboration between Kalakoda Promotions and Kwesé Sport, which also sponsored the August event when Moyo won the title. Moyo who is 33 years old has a record of 6-5-2, will have be put to test as he will be coming up against one of the best in the division. Didier, five years older has an impressive record of six wins, of which five were by way of knock-outs and just two defeats and he last won his last fight by way of TKO over Wikus Ludeke in Cape Town in late November last year. Fight bill: 10 rounds WBF Africa heavyweight title: Elvis Moyo (Zimbabwe) v Knife Didier (Democratic Republic of Congo) 10 rounds vacant WBF Africa bantamweight title: Tapiwa Tembo (Zimbabwe) v Swedi Mohamed (Tanzania) 6 rounds Female super-lightweight: Monalisa Sibanda (Zimbabwe) v Eneless Nkahwanthi (Malawi) 8 rounds super-bantamweight: Tinashe Madziwana (Zimbabwe) v Aubrey Masamba (Malawi) 8 rounds middleweight: Thembani Mhlanga (Zimbabwe) v Enock Msambudzi (Zimbabwe)