President Mnangagwa Farirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter— Zimbabwe will take concrete steps to re-engage with nations it had disputes with in the past and will comply with international obligations, President Mnangagwa has said. He said this at a preparatory meeting with the business community for the World Economic Forum (WEF) to be held in Davos, Switzerland, next week. “The manner in which we previously managed our politics, both nationally and internationally, led our country to be labelled a high risk pariah State,” he said. “My Government acknowledges that Zimbabwe is a member of the global community and cannot go it alone. “We will, therefore, take definitive steps to re-engage those nations that have had issues with us in the past and Zimbabwe will comply with its international obligations. We are also ready to take measures that we settle our debts and enter into new relationships.” President Mnangagwa urged the media to change their manner of reporting by desisting from focusing on politics only, but turn their attention to other issues that promote the country’s economic growth. He reiterated that Government would not tolerate corruption in all spheres of life. “My Government has made a commitment to fight corruption in all its forms,” said President Mnangagwa. “I am aware that the scourge does not only exist in the public sector, but is also rampant in the private sector. Let me, once more, warn those involved, that they must desist from corrupt practices forthwith. Swift justice will be served wherever corruption exists. We should all aspire to be a clean nation.” President Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe would honour all Bilateral Investment Promotion and Protection Agreements (BIPPAs), adding that he had directed Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister Lieutenant-General Sibusiso Moyo (Retired) to ratify all international treaties that Zimbabwe is a signatory to. “My Government has embarked on an extensive process to revamp our physical and social infrastructure to position Zimbabwe in readiness for investment,” he said. “In this endeavour, we are willing to get into Public Private Partnerships with both local and foreign investors. A legal framework by the way of the Joint Ventures Act has already been put in place to facilitate such partnerships.” President Mnangagwa encouraged the business community to continue engaging Government on any areas of concern. The WEF preparatory meeting was attended by businesspeople from various sectors of the economy, including some in the Diaspora.