KidzCan founder Andrea Whatman (second from right) flanked by the company’s board chairman Dave Willis (far right), Advocacy and Fundraising Officer Maureen Maradzika (centre), Husqvarna Events Director Grant Mitchell (third from right), Cutting Edge General Manager Alec Philip (third from left), Husqvarna Marketing Manager Erin de Jesus (second from left) and Kidzcan acting director Daniel Mckenzie during the handover of a donation from Husqvarna to Kidzcan in Harare yesterday. — Picture by Tariro Kamangira Sibongile Maruta Herald Reporter A Swedish private company has donated over $22 000 towards the assistance of local children suffering from cancer. The company, Husqvarna, donated $22 166 to KidzCan, a non-governmental organisation assisting children affected by the disease. Husqvarna general manager Mr Alec Phillip said the company was committed to supporting KidzCan in realising its goals. “We are very pleased to be involved with KidzCan, an organisation that plays a constructive role in the society. They are very transparent and effective in what they do,” he said. “Our organisation is not going to stop in supporting this vision for supporting children suffering with cancer.” Husqvarna marketing manager Ms Erin De Jesus weighed in, saying at the beginning of the year they hosted a mud run, whose proceeds are now being channelled towards the children’s treatment and diagnosis. “We love to support KidzCan so that they can help save lives of children suffering from cancer and we continue to support them. We also look forward to create more events to support them every year,” she said. In an interview with The Herald, the acting executive director for KidzCan, Mr Daniel Mackenzie, commended Husqvarna for the gesture. “We are grateful for this donation by Husqvarna. This is a great way to kick-start the year in terms of raising awareness and funding.” KidzCan, he said, is supporting Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals ward A4, which is the only cancer ward in the country. “We assist the only ward at Parirenyatwa that caters for children suffering with cancer, we assist with investigations, diagnosis and we pay for all the drugs for chemotherapy as well as blood and blood products,” he said. Mr Mackenzie also thanked other local partners assisting them in realising their vision. KidzCan is a registered charity organisation in Zimbabwe focused on improving the provision of an early diagnosis and effective treatment of cancer in children, as well as contributing to the well-being of children suffering from cancer and other related life-threatening blood disorders.