Cyrille Regis LONDON. — Cyrille Regis has died aged 59, and stars from across the football world have paid tribute to the ex-West Brom star. Regis won five caps for England between 1982 and 1987, having been one of the stars of the Baggies team between 1977 and 1984. He scored 112 goals in 297 appearances for Albion before moving on to Coventry, winning the FA Cup with the Sky Blues in 1987. Bryan Robson has led the tributes for his former West Brom and England team-mate Regis. Regis and Robson played alongside one another at The Hawthorns for parts of five seasons before Robson moved on to Manchester United. Robson was also in the England team, and scored in the first minute, when Regis made his senior England debut in a 4-0 win over Northern Ireland in the Home Championship in February 1982. Regis would go on to win five England caps and also represented Coventry City at the height of their success, including their famous 3-2 extra-time victory over Tottenham in the 1987 FA Cup final, as well as spells at Wolves, Aston Villa, Wycombe and Chester City. “He was a great friend, a great lad and will be sadly missed. He was still a very fit lad, still going into the gym, so it’s just something that has come as a real shock,” Robson told Sky Sports News. “Brendan (Batson), Cyrille and Laurie (Cunningham) did so much for black players in the game. They took that much on board, but handled it brilliantly but that didn’t surprise me because the three lads we are talking about, especially Cyrille, were great. “It’s a sad loss.” Sol Campbell said: “Sad news today when I heard of the passing of a football legend Cyrille Regis. I remember looking up to him for being one of the first black players to really make it! 59 so young condolences to his family and friends.” Alan Shearer added: “What a man. What a centre-forward! One of my earliest football memories was walking into WBA for a trial as a 13-year-old kid, seeing Cyrille Regis and being in awe of him.” Coventry City have said they are “shocked and saddened” by the news that former player Regis has died of a suspected heart attack at the age of 59. They will be paying tribute to the ex-striker at their match against Swindon Town at the Ricoh Arena on Saturday. The club’s official twitter account tweeted: “Everyone at Coventry City are deeply shocked and saddened to learn of the death of Sky Blues legend and FA Cup winning hero Cyrille Regis.” They then tweeted again to say that they will be paying tribute to the former player at their next game. A full statement paying tribute to the “true Sky Blues legend” was released on their website shortly after. It read: “Cyrille was a true Sky Blues legend, a strong, powerful striker and gentleman. He was still a regular visitor to the Ricoh Arena on matchdays, always humble and taking the time to speak to supporters.” The Professional Footballers’ Association announced the news yesterday morning and wrote in a tweet from its official account: “A true gentleman and legend, he will be deeply missed. Our sympathies to his family and friends.” And former team-mates and rivals alike rushed to pay tribute to Regis. Gary Lineker wrote on Twitter: “Saddened to hear that Cyrille Regis has passed away. A tremendous striker and fine man whose legacy goes beyond the game, helping to pave a way for black footballers in this country.” Alan Shearer posted: “What a man. What a centre-forward! One of my earliest football memories was walking into WBA for a trial as a 13 year old kid, seeing Cyrille Regis and being in awe of him. RIP big man.” Mark Bright added: “Heavy heart this morning, just heard that Cyrille Regis has passed away age 59. He was more than just a footballer, he blazed a trail for every black player who followed him, an inspiration to myself and many players of my era. A humble man and a great man.” Former Manchester United star Andy Cole shared his thoughts on Twitter. He wrote: “Devastated this morning my hero my pioneer the man behind the reason I wanted to play football has passed away my heart goes out to all his family RIP Cyrille Regis.” Brian Deane posted: “Hard to believe I’m waking up to hear Cyrille Regis, the man who started the dream for me and many others has died of a heart attack. Genuine honour to have played on the same pitch as him . RIP Big Cyrille Regis”. Regis, who played more than 200 times for both West Brom and Coventry, passed away on Sunday after suffering a heart attack. He was born in French Guiana in 1958 and moved to England with the rest of his family as a young child, playing youth football in London for Molesey and Hayes. Regis was spotted by West Brom’s scouts and joined them in 1977, making an immediate impact and going on to score 81 goals in eight seasons before moving to Coventry. He was part of Coventry’s FA Cup-winning side in 1987. During his time at The Hawthorns, he would also begin his international career, eventually winning five senior caps after coming through the Under-21 set-up. Seven more years would follow with the Sky Blues, where he made 238 appearances and scored a further 47 goals. Regis would go on to play for Aston Villa, Wolves, Wycombe and Chester City before hanging up his boots in 1996 because of injury. He was awarded an MBE in the Birthday Honours in 2008 for his services to football. Regis was one of the pioneers for black footballers, playing alongside Laurie Cunningham and Brendan Batson during his time at West Brom. The trio were honoured with a statue, called The Celebration, in West Bromwich in 2014. West Brom signed him for £5 000 in May 1977 and he made a spectacular start, scoring twice in a League Cup tie against Rotherham in September of that year. Along with Cunningham and Batson, who joined Albion in 1978, the trio of black players were nicknamed “The Three Degrees”. He was voted the PFA Young Player of the Year for 1978. — The Daily Star.