Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter FORMER Olympian Abel Chimukoko has said there is need to educate athletes on the importance of planning for life after sport. Chimukoko, who is now the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee Athletes Commission chairperson said with several cases of former athletes finding it difficult to make a living after sport, it’s high time stakeholders came together and found some solutions. The former middle-and long-distance runner believes the first step is to engage athletes’ commissions within the national sport associations to try and map the way forward on how they can tackle the issue. “National associations have got a very big role to play, these are the ones who should see that their athletes prepare well and they should guide them. Athletes need guidance and proper advice to make the right decisions. Our athletes’ commission has just started, so we are trying to make sure that our commission is delivering. We have got our plans for 2018 and we have to make sure we implement them. “First thing we want to make sure each national sport federation in Zimbabwe has got its own athletes commission. Then from there, we meet with the athletes’ commission to induct them and after that we will be meeting regularly to hear their grievances and the way forward. “That’s when we are going to talk about life after sport. Athletes need to be educated on the importance of preparing for life after sport,” said Chimukoko. Chimukoko went on to urge athletes to make hay while the sun shines and make wise decisions for their future. “I think what we need to do or should I say athletes need to do for them to prepare for life after sport, is that they should seek guidance from experienced people on how to invest their money, they can invest in properties. “From what I have observed, most athletes love posh things, they want to buy fancy cars and spend money recklessly. So the other issue is about financial advisors, who can assist them on how to use their money, I think that way it’s much better. “Sport as a career, I have talked about education, which is very important. If people are educated on the fact that they can live through sport, then they can take sport seriously and make wise decisions. “Most of our athletes here in Zimbabwe are like part-time sports people,” said Chimukoko. Chimukoko, who is also the president for Zimbabwe Olympians Association, also pointed out that there is need to fairly reward athletes for their efforts when they represent the country. “When I got into office last year, that was the first thing I was told by the athletes that whenever they represent Zimbabwe, they are not getting enough as compared to their counterparts. So that’s another issue we need to address,” Chimukoko said.