President Mnangagwa Farirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter Zimbabweans should resolve any conflicts they may have peacefully to enable the country to move forward, President Mnangagwa has said. The President said this on Saturday during his meeting with chiefs in Gweru. The remarks are a rebuke of attempts by fugitive politician Professor Jonathan Moyo to demean the Head of State by claiming he has no interest in resolving the Gukurahundi issue. Prof Moyo’s rantings on social media are despite the fact that the President has already signed into law the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission Act that empowers the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission to execute its constitutional mandate. President Mnangagwa said his Government was committed to resolving conflicts to enable the development of the country. “Saka tinohwisisa kuti isu tiripo pachinguva chino pahutungamiri pawhatever level tinofanira kushanda, kushandira vanhu, kushandira kusimudzira nyika yokwedu, kusimudzira matunhu ekwedu. Hatifaniri kuva nehumbimbindoga. Hakunazve rimwe sangano muno munyika ringati rakambozvipira kufa kuti nyika isununguke, kuti vanhu vasungunuke kunze kweredu,” he said. “Saka matambudziko atakaona murwendo rwedu imomu arimo atinenge tichiti matambudziko iwayo ngaataurwe kana paine zvichemo,” he said. “Kana zviripo zvitaurwe pave nejustice nenational healing and reconciliation throughout. We cannot progress when communities are in conflict. We must identify the conflicts and resolve them and move forward and develop. That is the aspiration of the new order yedu, yemunyika muno.” President Mnangagwa said it was every Zimbabwean’s wish for the country to be peaceful. “Only when the country is stable and peaceful can we develop, can we focus on development, can we make sure that the younger generation, our own children, can be supported to go to schools, to go to institutions, to go to universities, to go abroad and to bring back to Zimbabwe skills and technologies not available in the country,” the President told nation’s 280 traditional leaders. “That can only happen in a peaceful country and where there is dialogue, where we continuously dialogue among ourselves as we are doing now,” he said. President Mnangagwa challenged communities to bring their concerns to Government for redress. He said Government would soon meet various sections of society to hear their concerns. “Right across the population of our country, tinofanira kuva nedialogue iyoyo. Dialogue with the students, dialogue with the churches, dialogue with war veterans, dialogue with farmers, dialogue with workers, dialogue with everybody. No one is not important; everybody is important. All of us in our diverse positions and callings, we have challenges and those challenges can be attended to. If we can dialogue and talk to each other then we can move forward,” he said. The President reiterated his position that Government would not tolerate political violence during the forthcoming harmonised elections. “We are pursuing and fostering in the nation peace, runyarararo, love kudanana nokuwirirana, unity kubatana. Non-violence munyika, runyararo nekusakwikwidzana, kurwisana; so message yatinayo ndeye unity unity, peace peace, love love, non-violence,” he said. “Patinoenda kusarudzo hatidi kunzwa mhere mhere. Vanhu batanai, mukapesana mumatongerwo enyika, mumwe akaenda kurimwe bato raanofunga kuti ndorinomubatsira hazvifanirwi kuti nokuti munhu adaro morwisana, Kwete,” President Mnangagwa said. He said everyone had a right to support a political party of their choice but said Zanu PF remained the only party that had pursued the wishes and aspirations of the people by spearheading the liberation war and after the attainment of independence.