 Matirikoti Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Former Tripple Pace lead vocalist Pardon Saliem Namame affectionately known as “Matirikoti” has released seven singles that were inspired by social issues. The group which made a name with the hit song “Ndiye Mwari” eventually split, with band members venturing into other genres. Matirikoti’s solo career has since paid off and could take him to another level with the release of the singles recorded at Fusion Studios. Some of the songs include “Shanda”, “Usandirwadziwe”, “Matsimba” and “Kumakomoyo” among others of which two so far — “Shanda” and “Matsimba” have videos already. Listening to some of the songs, there is no doubt that it is the rebirth of jazz music with a fusion of afro pop, accompanying strong social messages. In an interview Matirikoti, said he chose jazz music not because other genres were flooded but merely out of passion, while targeting mature audience. “I believe, you have listened to the music and you can already tell who our target audience are. I am happy with how the singles are receiving — thumbs up even from the new generation. Jazz is seen as music for mature people but I want to change that perspective. Just like poet Hans Christian once said, ‘Where words fail, music speaks,’ I think now is the time to shape the community with music,” he said. He said the songs were themed according to various situation. “The singles collection is fused with love, motivational, culture and societal issues. I wish to succeed in my musical career. I am planning to launch my album in April and preparations are at advanced stage,” he said. Matirikoti said he was inspired by Oliver Mtukudzi and Salif Keita. “Their music bring joy to my soul and it embraces all ages and culture. I definitely would want to be in their shoes,” he said. The dreadlocked cited lack of exposure as a major hindrance to his career. I think musicians should be treated fairly especially first with the media then promoters. They should also give us light and platform to shine. As a new jazz artiste I feel we are not getting enough airplay on all our radio stations. In fact we are rarely heard,” he said