Minister Kazembe Kazembe Yeukai Karengezeka Arts Correspondent Minister of Sport, Arts and Recreation Kazembe Kazembe has promised to address concerns that were raised by different artists in the sector when he toured Chitungwiza Arts Centre on Tuesday. Minister Kazembe made the remarks during the dialogue session he had with artistes from all genres. “I am operating on a 100-day performance target and it is very important that we afford you the artists dialogue and fruitful engagement with government. In such an interaction we get to hear your concerns which will inform our planning and policy formulation for this key sector in the revival of the Zimbabwean economy,” he said. Minister Kazembe, through his ministry, promised to establish four arts centres in the capital within the stipulated time frame. “Most artists suffer from lack of exposure because we have few places where they can exhibit their stuff. But as part of our 100-day plan we want to make sure that at least there are four arts centres established, that caters for all genres if our resources permit,” he said. Among issues of contention, the ministry will do its best to curb piracy affecting musicians and writers especially the implementation of that law against offenders. They will revise current legal framework to become flexible to artistes to run their businesses smoothly as well as coming up with a Fund that will be assisting artists financially. The minister also toured Dominic Benhura Studios and had an appreciation of their work and the challenges they are facing in the sector. He was accompanied by the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe directors and board members who facilitated the tour. In an interview with The Herald, NACZ director Elvas Mari said the tour was a success and said more programmes were in the pipeline. “We are happy that this event was a success and we brought artists of different categories under one roof to share their expectations and grievances.  The Minister took heed and has promised to address the issues at the forthcoming Indaba. We are going to have more events of this nature,” he said. Artists have welcomed the gesture by the new minister and developments that he hinted on. “We are very honoured that our new minister afforded us an opportunity to meet him, share our concerns and him also sharing his vision with us. We are positive that things will change for the better for us,” said actress Kessia Masona aka Muchaneta in drama circles.