The interior of Nissan Patrol Tinashe Makichi Motoring By combining functionality, versatility and powerful performance with an attractive design, superior styling and refinement, the all new Nissan Patrol takes sophistication and capability to a whole new level. Nissan Patrol offers the discerning motorist modern lines, innovative safety features, highly advanced intelligent technologies, supreme comfort and more. The impressive exterior of the Nissan Patrol shields an interior that offers nothing short of first class comfort and style. The designers of the Nissan Patrol have paid significant attention to every detail. Large panelled wooden areas, chrome finishes and soft touch leather gives this vehicle a status of sophistication.Utilising advanced electronics to ensure that no matter how severe the driving conditions, the Nissan Patrol will grip the road at all times, transferring drive between wheels and axles. Effortlessly switch between four drive modes, sand, on-road, snow and rock with just a flick of a switch.Break pressure is applied two seconds after releasing the pedal to avoid any roll back before moving forward. Feel secure on a slope particularly in sandy or gravel conditions. The Nissan Patrol assists the driver down a steep or slippery slope at a constant slow speed without the need for braking, enabling the driver to concentrate on handling the vehicle. From the very beginning, the Nissan Patrol has been synonymous with power.Each new model has employed advanced technologies that enhance both on and off-road performance to unsurpassable levels. The latest generation Nissan Patrol is no exception. The 5,6l V8 engine offers the ultimate power trip. Variable Valve Event and Lift (VVEL) and Direct Injection Gasoline (DIG) technologies improve efficiency, power and torque with lower emissions. The 7-speed VVEL automatic transmission with manual mode, delivers seamless acceleration with 298kW of power and 569Nm of torque.The new Patrol boasts of a fresh and modern design approach which underpins the creation of the formidable exterior. From the high-tech image of the front head lamps to the dynamic rear end sporting combination lamps, each exterior element on the Nissan Patrol is a statement in luxury.The bold window graphic of the blackened pillar, alloy wheels, as well as the new angle strut grille all contribute to the vehicle’s formidable on-road presence. Chrome finishes on the air intake vents and window frames express dignity and grace.The integrated protective bumper has been designed with perfect approach angle to allow this off-road stalwart to go anywhere. The Nissan Patrol’s air conditioning system features curtain vents mounted in the ceiling above each side window and upper vents mounted above the windshield. A strong current of cool air forms a curtain of air that acts as a barrier to heat penetrating the vehicle. Dual Zone climate control allows front and rear passengers to personally set the air conditioning to different levels. The Nissan Patrol offers the largest interior space in its class. Legroom has increased due to the longer wheelbase, and expansive luggage space is created in seconds through the easy seat folding operation. A built-in cooler box that incorporates a double hinged design to enable access from both the first and second row seats, has capacity for six 500ml drinking bottles.