Edith WeUtonga (centre) in action at last Sunday’s Zibah function Arts Correspondent Local artistes and entrepreneurs have been challenged to embrace opportunities under the new dispensation if they are to register growth in their pursuits.Speaking at a Zimbabwe Business and Arts Hub (Zibah) inaugural get together for 2018, held at Club Vicious in Braeside, Harare on Sunday, the business media and arts development organisation’s vice chairperson Exervia Maoneke said it was imperative for local artistes and entrepreneurs to seize opportunities at their disposal. “Success doesn’t come knocking at your doorstep, you must learn to seize opportunities as they arise and define your space if you are to grow in your individual pursuits. At Zimbabwe Business and Arts Hub we are always promoting excellency and productivity and the new political dispensation has created a window for such growth if we are to engage, design productive programmes and work hard in all we do,” Maoneke said. Maoneke who is also the proprietor of Wheel and Easy Wezhaz Bar shared his life story with delegates at the meeting which was running under the theme “Monetising networks, synergies for growth”. “I am one person who values hard work and seizing opportunities whenever they present themselves. Growing up in rural Chivi I experienced my fair share of challenges but I managed to shake off the challenges and make something out of my circumstances. “That’s the spirit we want our local artistes and entrepreneurs to embrace,” Maoneke said. Zibah entertainment director, businessman and music promoter David Mudzudzu also highlighted that 2018 was a year for the organisation to work closely with relevant development players and Government Ministries in the development of local arts. “We are going to engage the newly appointed minister to explore opportunities and programmes for the growth of the local arts industry. At Zibah we believe the arts can play a critical role in the development of the local economy and our members from business, media and arts all value the power of unity and synergies,” he said. The highly subscribed meeting brought together captains of industry, small to medium enterprises, media and artistes with entertainment provided by Edith Weutonga, Linda “Ephrica” Munemo and David Hatie Chipoyi.