ZIMBABWE should brace for a possible backlash when they face winless Sri Lanka again tomorrow in the tri-nations series currently taking place in Bangladesh. The Chevrons handed Sri Lanka their first defeat when they sealed a thrilling 12-run win on Wednesday in a match that could have gone either way. Then the Sri Lankans, who have been experiencing a dip in ODI form of late, went on to lose to Bangladesh by a massive 163 runs yesterday and are facing a possible exit from the tournament. The Chevrons should be bubbling with confidence as they have won their last three consecutive meetings against Sri Lanka since the historic 3-2 ODI series win away in the subcontinent last year. Heath Streak’s men are looking to continue with the form against the Asian side, but skipper Graeme Cremer has warned his side against getting carried away. “We know the quality Sri Lanka have in their batting, so credit to our bowlers as well. “We now play Sri Lanka again in the next game. It will be interesting to see how Sri Lanka v Bangladesh goes,” he said before yesterday’s game. Zimbabwe lost their opening match to Bangladesh and they need to win tomorrow to seal their place in the final of the series. Sri Lanka were an exceedingly modest ODI side in 2017, losing 23 of their 29 matches. Two successive defeats to start the new year suggests they have a long way to go before they can consider themselves a competitive one-day side again. Thisara Perera, one of the team’s key players, has backed new coach Chandika Hathurusingha and said he is not a miracle worker as he needs more time with the team. “Having Chandika Hathurusingha is a plus point for us, because he is one of the best coaches in the world,” Thisara said. “Previously I have worked with him in the Sri Lanka A team as well. But he needs time. No one can do miracles. I think it is time for the team to step up with this new coach.” Thisara believed the stepping up, for the most part, must happen with the bat. It is certainly in that department that Sri Lanka were found wanting yesterday. Thisara’s own 29 was the highest score of the innings, and where Bangladesh’s batsmen had been fluent, many in Sri Lanka’s top order failed to gain the measure of the Mirpur surface. Never were they in this chase. “This is definitely a 300-run wicket – our batting just didn’t click,” Thisara said. “When we look at the last match against Zimbabwe, we have a lot of positives to take from our batting, but in this match, we couldn’t execute our batting plans.” Not that the bowling was stellar either. Of the six bowlers Sri Lanka used, five went at more than a-run-a-ball – spinner Akila Dananjaya being the only exception. As has been the case over the past two years, Sri Lanka’s attack also appeared to lack menace. Bangladesh’s three senior batsmen – Tamim Iqbal, Shakib al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim – scored effortless half-centuries. After 37 overs, Bangladesh had been 224 for 2. “Again we didn’t execute our bowling plans in the match, but we came back strong after Shakib and Tamim batted well,” Thisara said. “It looked like a 350 score, but it came down to 320. Our bowling unit is also doing well in the first 10 overs.” Sri Lanka are now in serious danger of being knocked out of the tri-series and must win their match against Zimbabwe tomorrow to keep hopes alive. Even a year ago, the prospect of not making the final of a tournament involving these two oppositions seemed unthinkable. But with Zimbabwe having won their three most recent games against Sri Lanka, it is possible that Sri Lanka may even go into that match as the less-favoured side. Such has been the rate of their ODI fall. “But I think we should keep our heads up, because no one should underestimate us,” Thisara said. “No one can say when we will rise up. I have faith that we can go far with our new coach.” – Sports Reporter/Cricinfo.