The late Robbie Chagumuka Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Italy-based Zimbabwean traditional musician Hendrix Chagumuka is set to launch his second album titled “Makorokoto” tomorrow at leading radio station Star FM studios. Hendrix is son to the late Chimurenga musician Robbie Chagumuka, affectionately known by his ardent fans as Mwachewe, who fronted the Black Heroes band. He worked on the same album with his father’s former producer Spencer Masang. Just two weeks ago the talented singer released a single dubbed “Benyumundiro” off the upcoming album titled “Makorokoto”. The new offering carries eight tracks and it features T-Gonzi on a song called “Tateguru”. He will also launch video of the titled track “Makorokoto” shot in Marondera and produced by Simba Gee. In an interview, Chagumuka said he was happy to launch his latest project at home. “I am very excited about the new album that I will be unveiling here in Zimbabwe because it reconnects me with my local fans. I regard it to be my best album so far and I hope music fans will fall in love with it. I am doing best to revive and maintain my father’s legacy,” he said. The launch comes at a time when the family commemorates the life of Robbie Chagumuka who passed on January 26, 2006 at St Paul’s Musami Hospital. “I dedicate it to my dad as we celebrate his life. Outside music, he was a philanthropist who staged several benefit shows in Harare, South Africa, Mozambique and Europe. My father was hero and contributed positively to the development of our arts sector that why I specifically chose this day as a way of honouring his great work and celebrate his life, he said. Hendrix started music at a tender age playing drums. He became the youngest member of the group to travel around Zimbabwe as the backing vocalist in the 90s. Having grown in a family rich and proud of its Korekore culture, loving traditional rhythms, Hendrix didn’t fall far from the tree. He released his debut album “Hupenyu” (Life) in 2016 which carried six tracks. It featured afro jazz Willis Wataffi on two tracks “Kudakwashe” and “Mwanasikana”.