Shashl_ Arts Correspondent Young local R‘n’B musician Shashl_ has scored a first after signing a deal with renowned record label Universal Music. The deal will see Shashl_’s music being distributed internationally and she is set to seal other deals with well-known regional singers and promoters. For a musician who is still new in the industry, the deal speaks volumes about her potential. She becomes the second Zimbabwean musician under Universal Music after Jah Prayzah who is making international exploits courtesy of the deal. In a statement released this week, Shashl_ expressed her excitement about the new development and said she would use the deal to take her music to many parts of the world. “I have a passion for music and the new deal will help me work towards my dream. I want to take my music abroad and represent Zimbabwe on an international platform through my music. It also inspires me to work hard because I have to maintain good standards that match such a big record label,” she noted. “Being recognised in an industry that has so many big names is indeed a blessing and an assurance that the future has big things for my career. I have received support from many people that are close to me and they always encourage me to work hard. I will try my best to ensure that brand Shashl_ goes places. Universal Music will indeed shape my future.” Universal Music is one of the top labels in the world and they have reached to local musicians through their South African subsidiary. Universal Music representative Stanley Botsh assessed Shashl and facilitated the deal that will have so many benefits for the young musician. She is likely to get opportunities to collaborate with big regional names while her music will be distributed internationally. The deal comes in the early days of Shashl_’s career. She released her debut single “No More” last year, which is enjoying immense airplay. Born Ashleigh Angel Moyo, the young musician started pursuing music as a child and her interest grew as she got support from her father who also has an artistic background. She performed at various events at school and continued with music when she went to study in South Africa. Her debut single “No More” was launched at a colourful ceremony at News Café in Borrowdale last year and it was attended by some of the top local celebrities. Shashl_ is working on her debut album and her deal with Universal Music will help her spread her wings wider.