Virginia Kashiri Herald Reporter A delegation from the city of Munich in Germany yesterday paid a courtesy call on Harare Mayor Councillor Bernard Manyenyeni to share their experiences on planning, housing and infrastructure development. Harare has twin relations with the German City. Speaking during the meeting, Clr Manyenyeni said Harare has outgrown itself in terms of design and it needs solutions to overcome infrastructure deficit. “We are as always delighted to have these exchanges between our two cities-Munich and Harare. The relationship between Harare and Munich continues to be one of the most copied examples of twinning. It works well and almost every six months, there is some engagement, some relationship between the two sides. So, we are happy to have you around,” said Clr Manyenyeni. “We are facing challenges in managing our mobility. The city has outgrown itself in terms of design and it needs solutions that fit its size and features. We are 10 times our designing capacity and it is beginning to show on our infrastructure and road mobility.” He said Harare’s population was now two million people and greater Harare has four million people. Clr Manyenyeni said the visit by the German delegation exposed the city to modern solutions like underground trains, which cannot, however, be supported by the country’s economy. “As we sit here and look at ourselves, there are things that we think we share over ideas and exchanges that we would be able to learn and copy,” said Clr Manyenyeni. He said there should be a mutual friendship between the two cities. “I have always believed that twins are twins. I have a different understanding of twinning relationships. My view of twinning is that it must be mutual. It must not be about one carrying the other all the time.” Mr Georg-Friedrich Koppen from the Munich Urban Development Planning Department said he was looking forward to working with his counterparts from the City of Harare. “We thank you very much for the invitation. I have come with some reports of our actual projects in Munich. You can see for yourselves examples of planning, urban development, housing and infrastructure development among others,” he said.