Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe National Boxing Control Board have flexed their muscles and revoked the licence of Delta Force Academy as well as manager and promoter Clyde Musonda for flouting the board’s rules and regulations. Musonda’s fate was sealed during the board’s meeting in Harare on Friday. The former pugilist’s case was one of a number of matters that were dealt with by the board. Musonda is also alleged to have snubbed an opportunity to defend himself after disappearing from the venue of the meeting before he had been called in. In a statement issued after the meeting, the board Musonda accused of bypassing the board’s protocol among other issues. However, the boxing promoter made an appearance at the meeting’s venue only to later on disappear before he could appear before the board. They later wrote a letter to Musonda following their judgment. Boxing control board’s secretary-general Patience Masarirambi in the letter to Musonda advised him that his licence which allowed him to operate as a promoter/manager had now been revoked. “Following their meeting held on the 19th of January 2018, which you were required to attend, and indeed you came to the venue but decided not to wait for your turn to appear before the board, I am directed to inform you that your licence, which allowed you to operate as a promoter/manager etc. has been revoked indefinitely for the following reasons; “1. Using members of the First Family to solicit for sponsorship without their express permission and knowledge. “2. Issuing statements/interview to the media about professional boxing without clearance from the boxing board. “3. Bypassing the board and seeking to deal directly with the Minister of Sport, Arts and Recreation, contrary to protocol. “These matters show gross indiscipline on your part. As you prefer to operate outside the boxing board, you obviously do not need the board’s licence,” read part of the letter. It emerged that this is not the first time that Musonda has had issues with the boxing control board as he is being accused of being unrepentant. “It is important to note that the previous Board, and the one before, all had occasion to cancel your licence for the same offences. The current board is the third one to do so. “It paints a picture of a man who has no respect for authority at all, or prepared to make amends. “As a consequence of this ban, you are not allowed, in Zimbabwe, to involve yourself in the training, management or matchmaking of professional boxers, or serve in any capacity in matters concerning professional boxing. By copy of this letter, the boxing fraternity has been advised accordingly,” Masarirambi wrote. The boxing control board chairman Richard Hondo in confirming Musonda’s ban yesterday said the Delta Academy boss had failed to follow their normal procedures when approaching sponsors and cited the former boxer’s decision to go directly to the Minister of Sport, Arts and Recreation to ask for a letter to confirm him a bona fide promoter instead of the Board. “He actually bypassed the board . . . the fact of the matter is that he wanted the Minister this time to provide him with a letter and we don’t do that. It’s not the minister’s function to vow for the integrity of a promoter to approach for sponsorship. “The minister appointed a board for that particular function. “Usually if a promoter wants to approach a potential sponsor they come to the board for a letter to say that they are a bona fide registered promoter and they are seeking sponsorship to put up a tournament, which has been sanctioned by the boxing board.