Dr Panganai Kahuni Correspondent It would seem that in Zimbabwe, some of our politicians are suffering from philosophical meningitis. Meningitis is an infection that causes permanent brain damage or death. It therefore seeks prompt antibiotic treatment to avert the fatal risk it causes.  In politics, philosophical meningitis can be defined as ideological and philosophical relationships that have no business impetus or strategy which enables a nation to grow economically. It is characterised as a political sickness which mistakenly creates political despots such as G40 cabal (Professor Jonathan Moyo, Saviour Kasukuwere, Patrick Zhuwao, Kudzai Chipanga, Phelekezela Mpoko and Grace Mugabe) and the MDC trio of Tendai Biti, Nelson Chamisa and Dhewa Mavhinga believe they can employ political treachery as a concept of swaying Zimbabweans to vote them into political office. Can such a political mantra which causes human suffering be allowed political space in our beloved country Zimbabwe? Zimbabwe has economically suffered immensely from politicians who can easily be viewed as suffering from the disease called philosophical meningitis. A contemporary example is the recent calling for more sanctions on Zimbabwe by the MDC coalition trio of Tendai Biti, Nelson Chamisa and Dhewa Mavhinga. Inasmuch as the trio wants to refuse ever calling for sanctions during their visit to the US, the video on You Tube shows undisputed evidence that the trio asked Americans not to ease their sanctions on Zimbabwe. Fellow Zimbabweans, it is real that sanctions which the trio went to call for in the USA are an instrument of economic warfare used as a blockade or siege with the aim of making the affected state surrender to US corporate intentions. Ironically, Tendai Biti together with Professor Welshman Ncube, are the architects of the heinous American law ZIDERA which forbids Zimbabwe from getting financial support from multilateral institutions such as IMF and WB. This writer confronted Tendai Biti at Fairmile Motel during a consultative budget meeting when he was Finance Minister on what strategies he had to steer the economic ship out of self-inflicted mucky waters while the country was financially hamstrung by ZIDERA he helped craft. It was not surprising not getting a clear answer from the philosophical meningitis suffering patient. Fellow citizens, sanctions have no boundaries in terms of inflicting human suffering. In fact, sanctions care less about whether one is in support or not. The irony is that those who suffer most are the general citizens regardless of whether they ignorantly support the imposition of sanctions or are against such practices. Sadly, those who benefit most are those who have the means to leave Zimbabwe for America to call for sanctions. Disappointingly, the benefit from such ventures is enjoyed at the expense of the followers of the very same politicians who use sanctions as a weapon to destroy the economic vibrancy of a nation in order to get into power through human blackmail. Honestly, one cannot be faulted for calling such sickening practice philosophical meningitis. Philosophical meningitis in politics has the potential to destroy the wellness of a nation like meningitis is to the human brain. It also has a potential to cause violence, instability and conflict among nationals resulting in millions of deaths in the same manner meningitis causes deaths in human beings if it is not promptly treated. People will remember how philosophical meningitis nearly destroyed Zanu-PF from within. Those suffering from philosophical meningitis in Zanu-PF are G40 politicians such as Professor Jonathan Moyo, Saviour Kasukuwere, including former VP Phelekezela Mpoko who developed the habit of exonerating corrupt individuals in public. Imagine a whole VP storming a police station to release a suspected corrupt ZINARA official! If that is not philosophical meningitis equal to that of Tendai Biti and company who deliberately call for sanctions to inflict human suffrage then “Mwari ngavatibatsire”. Corruption and public attack of party and government officials had become a melodious music for G40 politicians. Imagine a whole First Lady organising a church gathering and code-naming it Super Sunday where the word preached was more devilish and demonic. Honestly, most congregants were left wondering whether the sermon augered well with Christian values than the usual church sermon. Perhaps those not surprised and who seemed to enjoy every moment of madness were Bishop Ndanga and company including Letina Undenge. If that was not philosophical meningitis “aah Mwari ngavatibatsire”. G40 was infested by people of professorial academic disposition such as Jonathan Moyo who is the most treacherous academic suffering from philosophical meningitis. Jonathan Moyo a professor without wisdom who thinks because of his professorial qualification and because of his being a professor appointed Minister of Government he then owns Zimbabwe. It was surprising to hear the professor saying the new government has no capacity of holding free and fair elections. He further stated in his BBC Hardtalk interview that he knows no regime that enters Government through the bullet that has been capable of running free and fair elections. It is extremely surprising how the uneducated professor deliberately wanted to ignore history. General Buhari the current President of Nigeria brought democracy in Nigeria to the extent that he got a second chance of leading the most popular Nation in Africa. So what nonsense is the professor talking about? It was also surprising how he wanted the world to think he survived a 15-25 Special Air Services (SAS) attack at Kasukuwere house. He claims that the Special Forces indiscriminately attacked them for 15 minutes and did not enter the house from which after 10 minutes he was able to escape. The politically bitter professor was hallucinating here. If the military was able to destroy and run over fortified bases in Mozambique and DRC, what on earth would stop them from entering a civilian occupied house? If the professor is not suffering from philosophical meningitis then he must be diagnosed for something similar. It was also disturbing as it was sickening to hear the professor failing to understand that party officials have no mandate to rebuke government officials in public. Even if the party had such authority it would have used party structures in reprimanding its cadres rather than apply draconian public methods as enjoyed by the former first lady. It is people like Jonathan Moyo with no regard of principles of leadership who allowed corruption to be viewed as normal practice in both Zanu-PF and Government thereby destroying the economy and scaring away investors which resulted in the military carrying out “Operation Restore Legacy”. If such a practice cannot be equalled to calling for sanctions or even worse than that then Africa will never develop. Jonathan Moyo was not even ashamed of characterising the recognition of the new government by countries such as German, Britain, China, Russia, America etc as “international conspiracy”. The challenge for Jonathan Moyo is that he thinks as a professor he is the only one who must be listened to by the world. Jonathan Moyo as a political fugitive and a politician suffering from philosophical meningitis should never think any Zimbabwean would lose sleep over his self stay in exile. If anything he has become worse than a footnote in the mind of every Zimbabwean.