Cde Zindi Farirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter Members of the National Assembly on Thursday congratulated President Mnangagwa on his ascension to the country’s top job in November. The legislators extended the congratulations while debating a motion moved by Mutasa South legislator Cde Irene Zindi to congratulate the President. “I want to congratulate President Mnangagwa as the second executive President of Zimbabwe,” said Cde Zindi. “I want to be mindful of the fact that change is a necessity and we need to embrace it.” Cde Zindi said President Mnangagwa had demonstrated maturity by withstanding insults from the G40 cabal led by former First Lady Grace Mugabe. “Despite the nasty words that were hurled at him he kept his cool,” she said. “He demonstrated political maturity in his inauguration speech by calling for non-retribution and revenge.” Retired Brigadier-General Epmarcus Kanhanga (zanu-pf Guruve North) echoed similar sentiments, saying President Mnangagwa was a results driven person who had already shown his inclination towards hard work. “The President is the sort of person who will not waste another day, another week or another month in coming to grips with issues on the national agenda,” he said. Mazowe South legislator Cde Fortune Chasi (zanu-pf) said President Mnangangwa had shown that he was a survivor after withstanding humiliation. “Congratulations are in order to the President because we are all familiar with the humiliation that he was subjected to,” he said. “Not many of us can withstand that (kind of) humiliation because it was a first time for a Vice President sitting together with his wife to be humiliated left, right and centre like he did, and remain calm.” Cde Chasi said despite the humiliation, President Mnangagwa remained loyal to President Mugabe up to the time he was fired from Government and expelled from zanu-pf. Mabvuku-Tafara legislator Mr James Maridadi accused some zanu-pf legislators of falling over each other in congratulating the President, yet they plotted against him when he faced the G40 cabal onslaught.