Daniel Nemukuyu Senior Reporter ZIMBABWEANS practising law across the globe have formed an association with a view to sponsor underprivileged, but brilliant youths aspiring to join the legal profession. Zimbabwe Lawyers International (ZLI), founded by a London-based lawyer, Mrs Caroline Mugova-Pfupajena, officially launched its Zimbabwe Chapter at a cocktail held in Harare on Friday. The group, which comprises 300 lawyers practising in countries like Canada, Australia, London, Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Dubai, also promotes networking and sharing of ideas among Zimbabwean-born lawyers practising in various jurisdictions. In an interview, Mrs Mugova-Pfupajena said the love for Zimbabwe as well as the legal profession pushed her into founding the group. “I love Zimbabwe and its people. I love my profession and ZLI brings the profession together and it seeks to assist the underprivileged to study law. “ZLI connects Zimbabwean lawyers practising throughout the world and promotes the culture of educating each other. “I found it as a better platform for lawyers to learn from each other,” she said. Unemployed law graduates, Mrs Mugova-Pfupajena said, will also get opportunities to be employed in different parts of the world. Aspiring lawyers will get the necessary support, guidance and sponsorship. “My desire, if funds permit, is to sponsor students annually to go and study law at local and international law schools,” she said. Ms Fungai Mahiya, a group member, said the platform was a good opportunity for lawyers practising locally to relocate to other countries for greener pastures. Practising lawyers and law students, Mrs Mugova-Pfupajena said, qualify to be members of ZLI. “We invite other lawyers and law students to join ZLI. Our membership now stands at 300 but I believe it can grow as people get to know of the association. “We will also benefit from legal convergence,” she said. ZLI was formed on August 1 last year in England and the Zimbabwe Chapter was officially launched last week in Harare.