John Zhuwawo Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter CAPS United striker John Zhuwawu continues to draw the attention of South African Premiership clubs and Maritzburg United have now joined the queue by inviting him to their base tomorrow. The Supa Diski club, who are home to Zimbabwe international forward Evans Rusike, are serious in signing the rangy forward and have asked for his police clearance. Maritzburg United appear to have targeted Zhuwawu as the perfect replacement for Rusike who is expected to leave the club for bigger sides in the South African Premiership. “John is flying to South Africa on Wednesday and this could be his breakthrough to a foreign club,” CAPS United president Farai Jere told The Herald last night. “As a club we have already made it clear that we will never stand in the way of any of our players who are wanted by foreign clubs. “These guys created a profile for themselves last year with our success in the CAF Champions League and it’s only fair that they reap benefits for the way they impressed on the continent. “But what I can assure our fans is that we will always replace our best players and that is why we are now targeting a Nigerian forward who is playing at the CHAN finals right now and we have been in contact with his handlers.” Ikechukwu Vincent Ezenwa was voted the man-of-the-match after he scored the winner on Sunday when Nigeria came from behind to edge a plucky Angola in a CHAN quarter-final battle. “I have to thank the team especially the coach who was very calm in the technical area pushing the team and believing that we will get the win,” he told Cafonline. “The performance was great because we continued to push and tried to get the goal after going down and we did just that in the last minute. I’m happy with my performance and having Gernot Rohr (the Super Eagles coach) here watching, I believe that will help me with the senior national team, new acquisition.” Meanwhile, Munyaradzi Diya, who is looking at setting a new record of becoming the first goalkeeper to play for the country’s Big Three football clubs, says he is excited by the quality at the Green Machine. The 31-year-old goalminder is about to join a rare club of players to have played for the three giants who include Rodreck Mutuma, Stephen Alimenda and Stewart “Shutto” Murisa. “Actually, I was not aware that I’m about to become the first goalkeeper to complete this difficult circle. I have played for Dynamos, Highlanders and now (I’m set to play for) CAPS United,” he said. “I was not even aware that the other players to have achieved the feat before me have won the league title with at least one of these clubs. Without sounding over confident, I want to say that I am very positive that I will not sit and watch while the record I’m about to set is tainted by the fact that I would be setting up another negative one. “I am very confident I will not leave CAPS United without winning the Premiership title. There are other good goalkeepers at CAPS United whom I will be competing against and they include Chris Mverechena and Prosper Chigumba and both are seasoned and good. “It’s good to be competing for the jersey with such good players. I will fight for it and if given an opportunity, I am optimistic that we will fight hard and win the title.’’ Diya believes Lloyd Chitembwe has assembled a team which is good enough to win the league title. “I have never been surrounded with such quality in my career,” said the goalkeeper. “The team is simply amazing. There are a lot of good players who include Mwanjali (Method), Hardlife Zvirekwi and John Zhuwawu among others. I think, there is no better feeling in the world of soccer than to be surrounded by players of such quality. “I believe if all goes well, if everyone works hard, we can win the title.” Coach Lloyd Chitembwe, whose charges kicked off their second pre-season training week yesterday, said his team will not be affected much by the departure of big goalkeeper Edmore “Zikeeper” Sibanda. “He (Sibanda) was a small part of the team, meaning the large part of it has remained. I am satisfied with what I have at the moment. “I believe I will assemble a team which can compete,” he said. Mwanjali joined his teammates at training while Ronald “Rooney” Chitiyo is still nursing an injury.