Those less in love with rustic outdoor sleeping can opt for the rooms which have single, double and twin accommodation Mirirai Nsingo ADJACENT to Muzarabani, Mashonaland Central, characterised by hot weather, lies the little-known Mavhuradonha Wilderness area, concealed from view by a lush green forest. Jesus may have had a torrid time in the wilderness going 40 days and 40 nights but had he been in Mavhuradonha, his would have been a blissful stay. For while wildernesses are characterised by harsh inhospitable weather, this wilderness, on the hem with the murderous weather of nearby Muzarabani Growth Point, is one that offers great views and assures one of a refreshing stay. Mavhuradonha Wilderness is one of the successful Communal Areas Management Programme for Indigenous Resources (Campfire) projects with a cool, moist climate, completely different from the hot temperatures of Muzarabani. Lying in Northern Zimbabwe, and loosely translated as ‘Land of Falling Water’, the place is hidden in the mountainous, woodland and rocky hillside. Operations and marketing officer of Mavhuradonha Wilderness Lodges, Thandiwe Sibanda told The Saturday Herald Lifestyle that it was the cool and moist climate that they experienced all year despite the hot weather conditions in Muzarabani that makes the place a tourist destination of choice. “We are in the lower Zambezi escarpment and experience an isolated micro environment despite the hot weather conditions in Muzarabani. This is one of the successful Campfire projects which was set up to ensure that the community derive direct benefit from tourism in their area and therefore recognise the value of wildlife,” she said. “We offer an inestimable exploration of a native, biodiversity and untamed Africa in its sense. We have a series of tourist activities such as hiking trails, walking therefore having a touch of the wild, meaning we have not manipulated the place. You have flora and fauna among other attractions,” added Sibanda. In the little known wilderness lies the Sohwe Falls whose source of water is a spring that is believed to be sacred and is largely recognised and held in high esteem by spirit mediums in the area. “Sohwe Falls is 4km away from camp, water is actually from a spring and it is a very sacred place highly recognised by spirit mediums. For kids we offer educational packages where we give the history of Mavhuradonha. We are refurbishing the place so that it can be more child friendly,” she said. Proud operator George Seremwe is happy with the work they have done on the Wilderness. “Managing the beauty of the country while also offering backpacking and a accommodation services without molesting the natural beauty of the place is something we are proud of,” he said. With chalets and bashers which are special outdoor rustic accommodation going for as little as $10, this Campfire establishment ensures that people get budget accommodation while those less in love with rustic outdoor sleeping can opt for the rooms which have single, double and twin accommodation. “The establishment, as is the plan behind Campfire, also benefits the community a lot and we act as custodians of the beauty of the land for and on behalf of the community,” said Seremwe. With friendly fresh cool weather all year through, this is one blissful tourism story that is begging to be read by the avid connoisseur of all things travel.