Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter SCOTT Vincent’s flirtation with the heavyweights of the golfing world ended in disappointment despite making the cut in the Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship at the Abu Dhabi Golf Club on Sunday. He finished a distant 71. Vincent had managed to make the cut at five-under on Friday but all the promise faded away after the third round where he carded a two-over which he followed with a six-over. The Zimbabwean golfer arrived in Abu Dhabi barely a week after a fine performance at the BMW SA Open Golf Championship last week where he finished fourth. Making his debut at the star-studded European Tour event, the 25-year-old carded an impressive three under-par 69 on day one which he followed with a two-under 79 and a 73. Vincent, however, had a disappointing 80 on Sunday in a tournament that was won by defending champion Tommy Fleetwood of England who produced a brilliant back nine display carding an overall 22–under with scores of 66, 68, 67 and 65. Vincent rubbed shoulders against world number one Dustin Johnson, who finished tied ninth, and former Major winners Rory McIIroy of Northern Ireland (tied third), and Swedish star Henrik Stenson (eighth). Meanwhile, Zimbabwe-born golfer Sean Crocker managed to book a place in this year’s Open Championship after he and Cameron Davis of Australia carded 69 and 70 to finish tied fifth. Crocker will take the third slot as Davis is already exempted for the prestigious tournament and so are Danthai Boonma and Jazz Janewattananond of Thailand and Australia’s Lucas Herbert. The 147th British Open will be held at Carnoustie in the United Kingdom in July. The quartet picked up the four places on offer for players who were yet to qualify for the major at the SMBC Singapore Open, the third of 12 events in The Open Qualifying Series. The final spot to The Open went to Lucas Herbert of Australia, who finished tied eighth with Malaysia’s Gavin Green, Philippines’ Miguel Tabuena and United States’ Berry Henson. The 21-year-old Crocker, who has since reverted to representing the United States, described his qualification for the 147th Open at Carnoustie in July as a dream come true. “To qualify for The Open is unreal, it’s something you dream of. To play in your first Major is the coolest thing ever. I remember Tiger Woods winning The Open back in the day, the one thing you always did was tune in when it was on.”