THE BOMBER . . . World Boxing Federation-Africa heavyweight champion Elvis “The Bulawayo Bomber’’ Moyo (right) addresses journalists in Harare yesterday in the company of WBF-Africa president Howard Goldberg ahead of the defence of his crown at the City Sports Centre tomorrow night Gilbert Munetsi Sports Correspondent World Boxing Federation-Africa heavyweight champion Elvis “The Bulawayo Bomber” Moyo yesterday warned the faint-hearted to keep their distance when he defends his crown against Congolese Didier Knife at the City Sports Centre tomorrow night. Flanked by the WBF Africa President Howard Goldberg and the operations director at Kalakoda (the promoters), Saul Loggenberg, Moyo told a press conference yesterday that he was ready to deliver an explosive show. He won the hearts of hundreds of his countrymen with a powerful and stylish show the last time he was in the ring in Harare in August 2017. Part of the South African entourage, including the defending champion, jetted into the country late Tuesday evening while Didier is expected this evening ahead of the weigh-in scheduled for tomorrow. As has been the custom Moyo, in stand-up comedian fashion, mocked the man from the DRC. “I have fought him before, but that was in the MMA (Mixed Martial Arts) where you would appreciate the zone is three times bigger than that of the boxing ring. He had acres of space to run away from me but the same cannot be said of 3m. I like it smaller and once I’m in there, then it is certain that I’m in possession of the territory. “Didier had much more preparation time than I had,’’ said Moyo. Confirming the return of the Friday Night Fights series whose sponsor-promoter contract will see Kalakoda putting together 14 events across the African continent, Loggenberg said their mission was to make Zimbabwe the Las Vegas of Africa. There will be another tournament in Harare in April, he revealed. “We are committed to the total revival of the sport of boxing in Zimbabwe and this also includes programmes for technical personnel. ’In partnership with the WBF, we are concurrently running a workshop for referees and judges, the objective being to ensure we have better capacitated people when we host functions of this stature. “Zimbabwe has amazing talent and the least we can do is to support them through the organisation of programmes to ensure we have regular activity inside the ring to avoid rust among the boxers. “We can’t wait to work with our partners and build a new chapter in Zimbabwean sport. We certainly believe that through our vision we can really position Harare as a hub for African boxing and sports Tourism. The timing is right, the appetite is there, things are falling into place and above all else, we believe in Zimbabwe and have some exciting plans for the future that will bring huge exposure and renewed shine to this jewel of Africa,” said Loggenberg. Meanwhile, two other partners were unveiled at the press conference – StarFM are the official media partner and Cresta Hospitality have pledged complementary accommodation for the boxers and officials. There are two title fights on the bill and four supporting bouts and all of them feature a Zimbabwean fighter. Jah Prayzah will provide musical entertainment.