Chinese performances will be part of the festival Yeukai Karengezeka-Chisepo Arts Correspondent When arts activities take shape after a short January break, revellers can look forward to the Chinese Spring Festival show meant to celebrate an important holiday called Lunar New Year. The show will be hosted by the China Africa Exchange and Research Centre (CAERC) in partnership with the Embassy of China to Zimbabwe and is set for February 10 at 7 Arts Theatre. The show will be a celebration of the most important holiday in Chinese tradition, the Chinese Lunar New Year, as families come together for joy and laughter and usher in the Year of the Dog. In an interview, event spokesperson Tinashe Kitchen he said the show brings families together. “We decided to set the pace early and the event commemorates one of the most important holidays in Chinese tradition, the Chinese Lunar New Year, as families come together for joy and laughter and being ushered in the Year of the Dog,” he said. The show will run under the theme, “The Dream” – inspired by the Dreamstar Talent Search Show. Kitchen highlighted that several Government officials are expected to grace the event. “We have invited delegates from a wide range of backgrounds to grace the event as we continue to promote socio-economic and political ties between Zimbabwe and China. “Senior Government officials, ambassadors and senior embassy officials, prominent private sector players and local and international Chinese Nationals seeking investment opportunities will grace the occasion,” he said. On the same night there will be a special performance from Dreamstar troupe that travelled to China in November for a two-week tour. The official launch dates for this year’s edition of Dreamstar will be announced at the same occasion. “Those that will attend the show will enjoy some performances from the group that toured China and we are going to reveal dates for the auditions of 2018 Dreamstar edition which we will conduct across the country,” said Kitchen. Chinese artists from Zimbabwe, South Africa and China will also be part of the occasion.