DARLING OF THE MIDLANDS . . . FC Platinum have been showering trailblazing coach Norman Mapeza with praises for the way he masterminded their historic success story which saw them being crowned champions of Zimbabwe football last year Mukudzei Chingwere Midlands Bureau ZIMBABWE’s representative in the 2018 CAF Champions League, FC Platinum, have lined up three international friendly matches as they look to sharpen their team ahead of the continental adventure. FC Platinum host Mozambican giants Ferroviario de Beira and Zambian sides Nkana Red Devils and Zanaco at Mandava in the three matches. They are hoping CAF will give them the green light to use their home ground to host their CAF Champions League assignments. They will play against the Mozambican giants, who were also here last year for a date against CAPS United this Saturday, before hosting Zanaco on January 30. The last international friendly will see them take on Nkana on February 3. Coach Norman Mapeza is hopeful his charges will be ready for battle when they play their first match against Angolan champions Clube Desportivo de Agosto in the preliminary round with the first leg scheduled for February 11, in Angola. Last month, FC Platinum assistant coach Lizwe Sweswe urged the club management to organise competitive friendly matches for the team before the African safari. “If we have adequate preparations we will be fine and we will be ready to compete in the African safari. We want friendly matches with good opposition that can even beat us and see where we need to improve,” said Sweswe. FC Platinum are currently camped in Bulawayo for a crash pre-season programme where the technical department expressed satisfaction that everything was going on well. Mapeza has been boasting that he has assembled a good team which he believes has the ability to achieve their primary target of reaching the group stages of the Champions League. CAPS United set the standards last year, by reaching the group stages of the tournament, ending years of poor showing by local teams in the tournament. “I am more than happy and I do believe we can reach our set objectives. No regrets at all. “We just need to keep on working hard like before. Preparations have been going on well and the new guys are settling well into the team which was the purpose also of camping here in Bulawayo,” said Mapeza. FC Platinum spokesperson Chido Chizondo confirmed the dates of the international friendly matches which they hope will give the side adequate test before the African safari roars into life next month. “We have talked to the clubs and they have confirmed their participation, the first match will be played on Saturday at Mandava and the other matches will also be played at Mandava,’’ she said. “The technical department wanted these friendly matches and we hope we will be ready for the African safari after these games. The matches will be played at Mandava because we are optimistic we will be allowed to play our matches at our home ground. “Mandava will also give our supporters a chance to see the team in action and also our new players will get a chance to play in front of our supporters before we start playing Champions League matches.”