TIME OUT . . . Ronaldinho has finally brought an end to a glittering professional football career LONDON. — Brazilian World Cup winner Ronaldinho has retired from football, his brother and agent has confirmed. Ronaldinho (37) has not played for a professional team since leaving Fluminense in 2015. The former Barcelona star, part of the triumphant Brazil 2002 World Cup squad, won the Champions League in 2006 – a year after having collected the Ballon d’Or. Roberto Assis confirmed the news of his brother’s decision in a column for Brazil media outlet O Globo and revealed plans for farewell tribute events following the 2018 World Cup. “He has stopped, it is ended,” Assis said. “Let’s do something pretty big and nice (for his farewell) after the Russia World Cup, probably in August. “We will do various events in Brazil, Europe and Asia and, of course, we are arranging something with the Brazilian team as well.” Assis, who confirmed sponsors Nike would also be involved in Ronaldinho’s farewell events, added: “The fact that he has been Barcelona’s ambassador for 10 years makes it a lot easier out there. He is wanted there and here (back in Brazil).” Ronaldinho started his career with Gremio before moving to Paris St Germain in 2001. After leaving Barcelona, the Brazilian also had a spell at AC Milan where he won the Serie A title in 2010/11. In fact, Ronaldinho started his playing career as a seven-year-old at youth level with hometown club Gremio in 1987, learning his craft until finally breaking into the first-team at 18. It only took him one full season in the Brazilian league to find his feet, firing home 23 goals in 48 matches in his second year with the first-team, earning him his international debut and ultimately the 1999 Copa America title, where Ronaldinho finished as the joint-Golden Boot winner with six strikes. That form launched him into the European spotlight, with Arsenal having even attempted to sign him, only for the deal to fall through over visa issues. The playmaker would instead eventually move to French giants Paris Saint-Germain in 2001, and although he enjoyed an impressive three years in the capital, it was with the Brazil team where the forward truly shown, helping the Samba Kings to World Cup glory at the 2002 Korea-Japan showpiece. One year later and Barcelona pounced on the attacker’s services and it was in Catalonia where Ronaldinho’s club talents truly shone, helping the team to back-to-back La Liga titles between 2004 and 2006, with the latter campaign including a UEFA Champions League triumph for the double. Unsurprisingly, it was during that run of success that the Brazilian clinched the Ballon d’Or, having also helped lead the national team to title glory in the 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup, while he also clinched success FIFA World Player of the Year awards in 2004 and 2005. Success didn’t stop there for Ronaldinho, either, as he eventually left Spain in 2008 for the Italian Serie A with AC Milan, where he signed off a three-season career in 2011 by helping lead the club to the league title. The forward then made the decision to return home to Brazil to wind down his career, playing for Flamengo and Atletico Mineiro, before a brief sting with Mexican outfit Queretaro was followed by another move back to his homeland, this time with Fluminense. — Mailonline.