Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter SCOTT Vincent continues with his outstanding performances as he made another cut in the Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship presented by EGA at the Abu Dhabi Golf Club yesterday. The cut comes barely a week after the top professional had another fine performance at the BMW SA Open Golf Championship last week where he finished a credible fourth. Vincent’s stock continues to rise as he is sitting tied on position 30 at five-under after two qualifying rounds of the tournament. Making his debut at the star-studded European Tour event, the 25-year-old carded an impressive three under-par 69, which he followed with a two-under 79 to position himself well in the €2 507 520 purse tournament. He arrived in Abu Dhabi on the back of an impressive performance at the SA championships in Ekurhuleni last week to begin the year, where he finished fourth, a result that qualified him for this tournament. Moreso, last week’s performance also saw him soaring on the world rankings, moving from 321 to 251. Vincent is looking to continue from where he ended 2017, when he finished on a high note with a third-place finish at the Indonesia Masters in December. The Zimbabwean will go into today’s round tied with Matt Wallace, Brendon Stone, Carlos Pigem, Adrian Otaegui, Tyrrell Hatton and Nicholas Colsaerts. Today, Vincent will start from the first tee and will play along Gregory Boudy and Scott Jamieson. The tournament is led by Belgian Ryder Cup star Thomas Pieters, who had a superb second round 65 to continue his good form after winning the EuroAsia Trophy last week and is leading teammate Ross Fisher of England. Meanwhile, local amateur golfers rekindle their rivalry this year as they clash in the Dugmore Trophy, which tees off at Bulawayo Golf Club in Bulawayo this morning. The Dugmore Trophy, played in honour of the late golfing icon, is a 72-hole event that will run until tomorrow. This annual event brings together almost all the country’s top amateur golfers and clubs in Zimbabwe, taking part in this two-day showcase, which is the opening event of the 2018 golfing season.