Models showcase latest designs from Pipeline Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter A local fashion house, Pipeline Fashions has pledged to support the fashion industry in Zimbabwe this year by hosting a number of shows in the country. Speaking at their inaugural fashion show held over the weekend at a lhotel in Harare, one of the directors Simbarashe Mambanda said they were determined to make the fashion industry a success. “We are looking to a great year as we will be hosting a number of fashion shows as a way of appreciating the existence of the fashion industry in the country,” he said. He said it was an obligation of every person in fashion to help the industry grow. “We have to support our own industry as its stakeholders therefore it is up to every Zimbabwean to support it. “In that light we as Pipeline Fashions will continue hosting such fashion shows as our way of supporting the sector,” he said. The event saw several male models among them Kumbirai Mukudu, Thomas Chizhanje and Praise Chitsawo going on the ramp to showcase some of the products that were on display. On the night Pipeline Fashions also honoured several personalities in the fashion industry that included Lisborn Mhonda. “Today we are having a fashion show for men but when we come back next time we are definitely making it bigger and better,” he said. Mambanda and his counterpart Tawanda Ncube started as mobile vendors for clothes during lunch time in the capital and would use their personal cars to sell the clothes in the city. They discovered a niche market for corporate and casual office wear which was in high demand. They later switched from selling to hiring out suits for special occasions especially weddings. Last year, they managed to a serve a huge clientele and also dressed local celebrities among them Josh Kayz, Kuda Mutsvene and the recently wedded Comic Pastor. As their business grew, the two then upgraded to a boutique and are now planning to grow their branch network countrywide were they have already attracted a number of clients. Loyal customers who were with them from the time they held car boot sales received gratuity gifts at the function.