Mukudzei Chingwere Midlands Bureau FORMER Warriors defender Zvenyika Makonese has waded into the debate on why Zimbabwean players are failing to break into major European leagues despite showing a lot of potential. He says the culture shock they get when they join the South African Premiership is the major factor that stops them going further. Just like today’s stars Makonese, at his peak, had the opportunity to join big European clubs, but failed despite having attracted interest from English sides Stoke City and Wigan Athletic as well as French Ligue 1 side Stade de Reims at the end of the 2006/07 season. The former Warriors defender, however, ended up joining South African Premiership giants Orlando Pirates. Debate last week raged over the paths that former TSG Hoffeniheim teammates Roberto Firmino and Warriors captain Knowledge Musona have taken since leaving the German club five years ago. Legendary Liverpool and Warriors goalkeeper Bruce Grobbelaar also waded in the debate. This comes at a time when Warriors star Khama Billiat is reportedly refusing to join Azerbaijan champions Qarabag, who are said to be offering less than what he is already getting at Mamelodi Sundowns. Qarabag will offer Billiat a chance to rub shoulders against the very best in the game in the UEFA Champions League. In the 2017/18 UEFA Champions League season the Azerbaijan club they were paired in a group that features English giants Chelsea, Spanish powerhouse Atletico Madrid as well as Italian giants AS Roma. “You know when you join a South African club from Zimbabwe or countries like Zambia, for example, you will be pleasantly surprised with what you get at those clubs,’’ said Makonese. “These clubs give you everything that you might need to be able to play football from the training kit to everything. “The salary you get will just be too much, especially compared to where you are coming from. “I do not know how best I can put it, but the reality is you get everything and you do not think about doing more in your career. “The other thing is the lifestyle in South Africa, it is just good and you cannot wish to leave especially considering that you will be financially stable to enjoy your life. “So when the opportunity to leave comes most players will say no because they are comfortable. The other thing is that other teams in Europe will offer you a salary which is below what you will be already getting. “Even you in your profession, if you are asked to take a pay cut you will say no. “The other thing is that South Africa is closer to home. “But now that I have experience, I realise that it is wrong not to take a chance of going to Europe if it comes.’’ Makonese’s assessment will be difficult to dispute given the well-documented examples of players who got a chance to break into Europe, but chose to remain with their clubs in South Africa. Former Warriors defensive midfielder Tinashe Nengomasha reportedly received an offer to join Lyon as a replacement for Chelsea legend Michael Essien, who had left the French club to join the Blues of London, but chose to remain at Kaizer Chiefs. England Championship side Sheffield United also offered a million-pound to land Esrom Nyandoro, but word is that the then Warriors midfielder chose to remain at Mamelodi Sundowns. Then Zimbabwe youth internationals Walter Musona and Wisdom Mutasa dumped Slovak top-flight side SK Senec to return home for yet unclear reasons. “You know at times the player might want to go, but the club you will be contracted to might say no to the move. Some players get a chance, but they are afraid if they can go to Europe they will become flops,” he said.