Mukudzei Chingwere Midlands Bureau THE confusion stalking Shabanie Mine continued on Saturday with the executive failing to hold their annual meeting after it was disrupted by rowdy supporters calling for the club leadership to resign. The fans fired the executive that was in charge last season, led by chairman Elias Marufu, and replaced it with a new one led by Tavaziva Mhloro. Last week the Mhloro executive held a meeting where they agreed to retain the previous technical department led by Takesure Chiragwi which survived relegation against all odds. The new leadership resolved to start working as soon as there was a hand-over of assets and records from the previous executive and they are pushing for an early start to preparations for the new season. The Marufu-led executive were supposed to hold their meeting at Runde Lodge on Saturday but a section of supporters caused the meeting to be called off. Secretary of the under-fire executive, Jonathan Ruhukwa, said they postponed the indaba after the venue had become small. “We still remain the substantive executive, the AGM is supposed to pass a decision if we are fired or not but as it is we still remain the executive. “But if the AGM says we are fired then that is it, no one will resist change. “The AGM did not go ahead as scheduled because the venue we had booked was small but we now have to go back to the drawing board to set another date,” said Ruhukwa. Unlike other teams which enjoy corporate support Shabanie Mine are bankrolled by supporters to sustain their operations. Yesterday one of the club benefactors Dumezweni Mawite Mpofu urged the fighting cabals to smoke the peace pipe for the benefit of the team. “The most important thing is Shabanie Mine FC and we are not worried with whoever is in charge of the team but what we want is for the team to quickly start preparations for the new season. “Those who are at the top of the club should just reach a common ground and allow the preparations of the team go ahead. “As the people of Zvishavane we are always ready to come in and assist the team. As it is we wanted the team to have started preparations for the new season like the other teams. “I hope they will do the right thing that will benefit the club not individuals,” said Mpofu.