MANCHESTER.— Bristol City suffered stoppage-time heartbreak in their League Cup semi-final at Manchester City on Tuesday night but played better than most English Premier League soccer teams that visit the Etihad Stadium, according the home side’s manager Pep Guardiola. The second-tier visitors had taken the lead with a penalty before the break in the first leg clash and then held on for dear life after Kevin De Bruyne levelled for the hosts. Yet Sergio Aguero’s last-gasp goal gave City a 2-1 advantage heading into the return game in two weeks’ time. The late strike was a gut-wrenching blow for visiting manager Lee Johnson, whose team had already dumped four top flight sides out of the competition, but his opposite number in the dugout had words of consolation at full time. “Pep Guardiola said to me that we played better than most of the Premier League teams that come to Man City,” Johnson told Sky Sports. We’ll take an awful lot from it and learn a lot. It is not over. It will be an interesting game at Ashton Gate. “The away goal was very important. We tried to score and certainly didn’t park the bus. The lads have to go home and think we can kick on form this performance.” Manchester City, who are unbeaten and 15 points clear in the Premier League, fell behind when defender John Stones dived into a rash challenge on Bobby Reid, who dispatched the penalty. The visitors’ lead lasted until the 55th minute but after De Bruyne’s leveller it was one-way traffic as they defended bravely in the face of a City onslaught. Guardiola was proud with the effort his Manchester City side put in to come from behind and beat Bristol City. “My players are fantastic,” Guardiola told Sky Sports. “In football you can win or lose but we tried and tried until the end, and that’s why (we scored the winner) because we didn’t give up. We know exactly what this competition is with a lot of games, and semi-finals are always complicated. That’s why I’m so satisfied.” Guardiola also reserved special praise for Bristol City, who battled superbly at the Etihad and were unfortunate to come away as the beaten side. The Manchester City boss also insists the tie is not over, despite their advantage ahead of the second leg. “(Bristol City) are a fantastic team and that’s why they’ve knocked out four Premier League teams, or they would not be in the semi-finals,” said Guardiola. “They can play, hit long balls and they’re fast up front. They know exactly what they have to do and it will be tough in Bristol, but we’ll try to win and reach the final.” Guardiola also dismissed the notion that City were fortunate to be facing Championship opposition in the semi-final, saying Bristol City have caused them problems in the same way other second-tier sides have in the past. “Every team creates problems,” he said. “Last season Huddersfield did it to us in the FA Cup and Wolves did it this season.” — AFP.