Lt-Gen Rugeje (Rtd) Sydney Mubaiwa in Bikita Zanu-pf national Political Commissar Lieutenant-General Engelbert Rugeje (Retired) has urged the country’s political parties to promote unity and refrain their supporters from violence to guarantee peace and tranquillity ahead of the harmonised elections. Addressing ruling party supporters at a rally held to celebrate his appointment into the Politburo, Lt-Gen Rugeje (Rtd) said the new political dispensation took a new trajectory in the area of politics. The new dispensation, he said, was predicated on the need to promote fairness, transparency, democracy, peace, unity and development. “We want peaceful elections this year and there should be no violence of any kind. Violence is not only castigated in the field of politics alone, but in everyday life. As zanu-pf, we want discipline from our members. We are saying people should also enjoy freedom of speech as long as what they are saying is within the confines of the law,” he said. Lt-Gen Rugeje (Rtd) said Zimbabweans could not afford to be divided by political differences. “This new political dispensation has no place for political violence and as Zimbabweans, we need to agree on some common things that bind us as one people, remembering that there is no reward in putting the law into our hands,” he said. “In this new dispensation, let it be known that it is a new form of politics that recognises fairness. Yes, people can differ and argue, but let’s do that with respect and make sure we do not engage in violence because the moment you pin your opponent down you are committing an offence.” Lt-Gen Rugeje (Rtd) warned youths against being used to commit acts of violence and challenged traditional leaders to be at the forefront of promoting peace and unity in their jurisdictions. “Traditional leaders play a pivotal role in promoting peace in their communities, particularly as we approach elections, and it is the vision of our party leader President Emmerson Mnangagwa to see a peaceful Zimbabwe,” he said. Addressing the same gathering, zanu-pf Masvingo provincial chairman Cde Ezra Chadzamira reiterated that the ruling party would not tolerate imposition of candidates ahead of this year’s elections. The ruling party, he said, wanted leaders who came from the people. “Zanu-pf is a democratic party and its leaders are chosen by the people. I want to urge you to be careful when choosing who should represent you. You must choose leaders who are focused and committed to bringing development, instead of simply lining their pockets,” he said. The celebrations were attended by several ruling party leaders from Masvingo.