The Ford Focus ST’s driver-orientated cockpit wraps around, so you’ll feel completely at one with the car, technology and features at your fingertips Tinashe Makichi Motoring The dynamic personality of the new Ford Focus ST, continues inside and you need to sit and appreciate the enhanced instrument panel and new-design. The driver-orientated cockpit wraps around, so you’ll feel completely at one with the car, technology and features at your fingertips. New technology, such as a parking system that gets you in and out of tight spaces, ensures that the most technologically advanced car in its class stays that way. Active Park Assist can steer you into parallel or perpendicular parking spaces just 20 percent longer or wider than the car. Simply push a button, and the sensor of the innovative system locates a suitable space as you drive past. Then it automatically steers you in, while all you do is operate the accelerator, brake and gears (following on-screen instructions and audible signals). Park-Out Assist works like Active Park Assist in reverse, helping you manoeuvre out of a parallel space. The system steers while you keep control of the accelerator, brake and gears. When the system has cleared the space, it gives you a ‘Take control of steering” message through the cluster. The new SYNC infotainment system gives you control of everything from audio features to satellite navigation (where fitted), and will even manage phone calls and text messaging – all through simple voice commands. The intuitive 8” colour touchscreen display, with pinch and swipe functionalities, lets you configure your home screen just how you want it, while Apple CarPlay and Android Auto allow you to bring your compatible smartphone functionality into your car. With the turbocharger, direct injection, and diamond-like coating on the piston ring, the Ford EcoBoost engine produces the same performance as a larger engine, but with superior fuel economy and lower emissions. Everything about the Focus ST is engineered to excite. From the powerful engine to the sleek muscular design, it’s 100 percent car, 0 percent apology. With excellent shoulder and torso support, the world-famous RECARO seats are ergonomically designed for the high-performance driver. With the new Electronic Transitional Stability (ETS) function, the new Focus ST has improved precision and control during rapid changes of direction at speed, ensuring every driver input is registered whilst remaining perfectly balanced. Think integrated roof spoiler, no-nonsense dual-pipe exhaust, and bold trapezoidal grille with blood-red ST badging. Ford’s new EcoBoost technology offers up to 20 percent better fuel economy and up to 15 percent less CO2, without sacrificing power and maintaining the quality of Ford vehicles you’ve come to expect. The 2,0l EcoBoost engine in the Focus ST provides exceptional performance, with an exhilarating 184kW of power and 360Nm of torque in a high-performance sports package, while still achieving an amazing 6,8l/100km. Using three proven engine technologies in harmony, namely advanced turbocharging, direct fuel injection and Twin Independent Variable Cam Timing, it sets a new standard in fuel efficiency with reduced carbon emissions, outstanding performance and affordability. Using Ford’s Easy Fuel system, it’s hard to fill up with the wrong fuel. Why? Because the correct fuel nozzle for your car is the only one that will fit. Another great thing about this system is that it’s structured in a way that prevents unauthorized access to or theft of fuel.