MELBOURNE. — Roger Federer says a 36-year-old should not really be considered a favourite for the Australian Open tennis title, although when the man in question is himself, no one was taking him seriously. The Swiss breezed through his media duties yesterday with the same swagger he will take on court against Slovenia’s Aljaz Bedene tomorrow, when he kicks off the defence of the title he won against great rival Rafa Nadal last year. That unforgettable triumph ended a five-year hiatus in Federer’s grand slam collection and a few months later, he took his tally to a record-extending 19 by winning Wimbledon. Few would bet against him becoming only the fourth tennis player to reach 20 in two weeks time, although Federer was reluctant to accept the favourite’s tag. “With age, I feel like I play down my chances just because I don’t think a 36-year-old should be a favourite of a tournament, it should not be the case,” he told reporters. “That’s why I see things more relaxed, you know, at a later stage of my career.” Federer says the likes of six-times champion Novak Djokovic and Stan Wawrinka, both returning after lengthy injury breaks, could benefit from the same mindset he arrived with in Melbourne last year, when he was just back from a six-month hiatus. “This year I hope to win the first few rounds and get rolling, whereas last year it was more of a ‘let’s see what happens’ kind of tournament,” Federer, who is seeded second behind world number one Nadal, said. ”Maybe similar to what Novak or Stan or others are going through this year. It’s like, let’s just see what happens. If you’re in the draw, you give yourself a chance. “That’s what happened for me last year. All ended up way better than I thought it would. Having no expectations was so nice after all these years always having expectations.” Despite being a year older Federer has higher expectations this year and says his build-up has been ‘perfect’. He won all his four singles matches as he and Belinda Bencic helped Switzerland lift the Hopman Cup in Perth. “It was a great preparation last year. I think it’s going to be helpful again for me this year because the court plays exactly the same in Perth and here in Melbourne,” he said. Federer is bidding to win successive Australian Opens for the first time since 2006-07. Meanwhile, Federer says tennis is “definitely a lot of fun” as he embarks on an Australian Open shrouded in mystery over the fitness and mindset of his major rivals in the next fortnight. The Swiss, rated as the favourite to win his 20th Grand Slam title even at the venerable age of 36, is still in love with the game that has made him a recognisable global celebrity and fabulously rich. Federer is coming off an extraordinary 2017, when he won a fifth Australian Open title and a record eighth at Wimbledon, and the way things are shaping there could be yet more glory with his main threats scrambling to be ready. Five-time finalist Andy Murray and Japan’s Kei Nishikori are already out with injuries, while 12-time major champion Novak Djokovic is working his way back from elbow trouble. World number one Rafael Nadal withdrew from his first tour event of 2018, in Brisbane, with continuing knee problems, and has been trying to catch up on the court in Melbourne ahead of the Open. The 2014 winner Stan Wawrinka says his knee is holding up well after surgery but there was still pain and he is miffed that he no longer has coach Magnus Norman in his player’s box. But while others have a troubled buildup to the year’s opening Grand Slam, Federer is enjoying an unruffled lead in to the Open and is at peace with the world.“It just seems that it’s nice that it’s never actually gone away, the fun aspect of actually enjoying the travel, coming back to Australia,” Federer said ahead of his first round clash tomorrow against Slovenia’s Bedene. “Yeah, it’s great times in my life and in my career that we can make it all work, that I can still play tennis.” Federer is returning to where he lit the fuse on his late-life tennis renaissance this time last year, beating Tomas Berdych, Nishikori, Mischa Zverev and Wawrinka before downing great rival Nadal in a five-set final classic — Reuters “Yeah, it was the tournament of the year for me, no doubt about it. All the five-setters, as well,” Federer said. Djokovic, who once ruled these hardcourts for six Australian Open titles, comes into this year’s event seeded 14 after an injury-chequered 2017. The Serbian former world number one has been out of action for six months, but he feels he’s on the mend. “It hasn’t been 100 percent yet healed. But right now it’s at the level where I can compete, and every day is getting better,” he said. “Throughout the tournament, I don’t know how it’s going to behave. Even if it’s 100 percent healed, after six months of no competition, you never know how you’re going to react. “I still know what I’m capable of, and I believe in my own abilities to win against the best players in the world,” he added ahead of his opening round clash against American Donald Young, also tomorrow. Nadal, who is gunning for a 17th major title but only his second Australian Open crown, is making up for lost time from a knee injury at the tail-end of the 2017 season. 