Dr Sacrifice Chirisa Mental Health Matters Sexual dysfunction refers to a problem occurring during any phase of the sexual response cycle that prevents the individual or couple from experiencing satisfaction from the sexual activity. The sexual response cycle traditionally includes excitement, plateau, orgasm, and resolution. Desire and arousal are both part of the excitement phase of the sexual response. Sexual dysfunction is common; affecting 40 percent of women and 30 percent of men. It is a topic that many people are hesitant to discuss. Sexual dysfunction can affect any age, although it is more common in those over 40 because it is often related to a decline in health associated with aging. Because treatment options are now available, it is important to share your concerns with your partner and family practitioner or psychiatrist. Sexual dysfunction generally is classified into four categories: 1. Desire disorders: Lack of sexual desire or interest in sex. 2. Arousal disorders: Inability to become physically aroused or excited during sexual activity. 3. Orgasm disorders: Delay or absence of orgasm. 4. Pain disorders: Pain during intercourse The symptoms of sexual dysfunction are as follows In men: Inability to achieve or maintain an erection suitable for intercourse (erectile dysfunction) Absent or delayed ejaculation despite adequate sexual stimulation (retarded ejaculation) Too early ejaculation (premature ejaculation) In women: Inability to achieve orgasm •Inadequate vaginal lubrication before and during intercourse •Inability to relax the vaginal muscles enough to allow intercourse In men and women: Lack of interest in or desire for sex Inability to become aroused Pain with intercourse Sexual dysfunction has various causes and below is the most common, but certainly not a conclusive discourse. Physical causes: Many physical and/or medical conditions can cause problems with sexual function. These conditions include diabetes, heart and vascular (blood vessel) disease, neurological disorders, hormonal imbalances, chronic diseases such as kidney or liver failure, and alcoholism and drug abuse. In addition, the side effects of some medications, including some antidepressant and some anti-hypertensives drugs, can affect sexual function. Psychological and psychiatric causes: These include work-related stress and anxiety, concern about sexual performance known as performance anxiety, marital or relationship problems, depression, feelings of guilt, concerns about body image, and the effects of a past sexual trauma. As alluded to above, sexual dysfunction is very common and if not addressed, it can threaten the integrity of a marriage, family and the general mental well-being of individuals. Sexual function is key in mental health wellbeing of both men and women. Continuing to neglect it has serious consequences. The great news is most sexual dysfunction related problems can now be solved including those occurring in women.