President Emmerson Mnangagwa greets MDC-T leader Morgan Tsvangirai and wife Elizabeth Macheka at their home in Highlands, Harare.-(Picture by Tawanda Mudimu) Obi Egbuna Jnr Simunye When President Mnangagwa and Vice President Constantino Chiwenga recently took time out of their extremely busy schedules to pay a courtesy visit on the former Prime Minister and opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai who is battling the deadly disease of colon cancer, it was of paramount importance to immediately lay to rest any inferences that the purpose of this humane and compassionate gesture was to begin talks that would lead to re-establishing the GPA-type Government that lasted from 2009-2013. The fact that President Mnangagwa posed and answered the question; “What’s the cause (to a form a GNU)? You are allowed to lobby; it’s a democratic country, people are allowed to lobby for anything. Currently, there is no need (for a GNU),” more than likely angered every Western embassy stationed in Zimbabwe, who have fantasised about the recent political dispensation leading to a restoration of an inclusive government. While it was delightful to hear MDC-T deputy president Nelson Chamisa state that it’s African to care for one another and was very Zimbabwean, it would have been extremely humble if these words had come from Mr Tsvangirai’s mouth and followed up by a warm and a heartfelt thank you to former President and liberation icon Comrade R.G. Mugabe for helping with his medical costs. It is also important to remind the African world that when Mr Tsvangirai survived a fatal car crash in 2009 that resulted in the loss of his wife Susan, former President and liberation icon Comrade R.G. Mugabe visited him in hospital, and his party was rather casual in refuting cowardly attempts of the US-EU imperialist media apparatus that called the tragic accident a botched assassination attempt. What the photograph of President Mnangagwa and Mr Tsvangirai made some remember was the historic Press conference that took place back in 2008 at the Rainbow Towers, when it was originally announced that ZANU-PF and both MDC factions would begin full fledged engagement in what ultimately became the GPA/Inclusive Government. To the surprise of many present, Mr Tsvangirai out of nowhere said, “No one has a monopoly on patriotism”, which suggested that regime change agents whose very existence was linked to the purse strings and vision of Mother Africa’s most hateful enemies, were equally as invested as most decorated national and provincial heroes whose courage and blood will forever shape Zimbabwe’s revolutionary essence and narrative. Unfortunately, this rather audacious disposition is shared by many regime change agents that numerically are either in the G40 cabal category, or the born free generation, who will not hesitate to tell you while openly working for Zimbabwe and Africa’s demise that “I still love my country”. While the high profile opportunist Pastor Evan Mawarire was recently cleared of criminal charges based on Zimbabwe’s constitutional framework, it does not negate the fact that while he was in the United States, he allowed the Rhodesian national David Coltart and his wife of Boerish/Afrikaner origin Chloe McGrath, who were employed by the US-EU imperialist think tanks, the Atlantic Group and the International Crisis Group, to parade him around like their pet dog while calling for regime change. If we are in a sentimental mood and want to give Pastor Mawarire a pass simply because he is a man of the cloth, since its established that in many cases a colonialist and imperialist interpretation of the good book, can leave Africans vulnerable to the wicked ways of the West. For this reason the gullible pastor had no idea that sitting next to the director of The Atlantic Group’s Africa Programme Director J. Peter Pham, who has also served on the US Advisory Board of the US Africa Military Command (AFRICOM), represented in a broader Pan African and international context. We wonder what the good pastor thought about Mr Pham’s recent op-ed published in The American Conservative titled “Zimbabwe’s Mugabe is gone, But What About His Enablers?” Mr Pham was quoted as saying; “Thanks to the Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Act, a bi-partisan piece of legislation signed by President George W. Bush in 2001, the Trump Administration has both clear benchmarks for progress and considerable leverage with Zimbabwe’s new leaders (both President Mnangagwa and Vice President Constantino Chiwenga are still on the Treasury Department’s sanctions list). “They just need to avoid paying any heed to those whose ignorance, wilful or otherwise, enabled Mugabe to drive Zimbabwe down the path of ruin for so long.” If he shouted praise to the Lord we can only think about the biblical proverb 1:10 “My son, if sinners entice you, consent you not.” Let us thank US-EU imperialism for exposing their own lie that only former President and liberation icon Comrade R.G. Mugabe and his wife Grace were the only ones left on the sanctions list. For those who feel the good pastor means well, but is extremely naive, what about someone like Mr Dewa Mavhinga who is currently the Southern African director of Human Rights Watch who was a star witness at the US Senate’s most recent witch-hunt of a hearing titled “The Future of Zimbabwe”. Six years ago Mr Mavhinga also testified in Washington when he was regional coordinator for the Crisis in Zimbabwe Coalition at a hearing titled “Beyond the reign of Zimbabwe’s Mugabe: A Chance for Democracy or Prelude to Conflict”. Mr Mavhinga also co-founded the Zimbabwe Democracy Institute, which on paper is called a public policy based think tank based in Harare. Because the Crisis in Zimbabwe Coalition and ZDI are financed by the fraudulent white liberal and closet white supremacist billionaire George Soros, we ask; is Mr Mavhinga a patriot or Mr Soros’ pet Zimbabwean? Based on the way Mr Mavhinga keeps getting gainful employment while switching up jobs as a regime change agent, he must have really enjoyed the game musical chairs as a child. We also feel compelled to address certain parts of the video footage of the rally spearheaded by the war veterans association, that exposed a Zimbabwean citizen of European ancestry who held up a sign “Bob isn’t my uncle”, mocking a label indigenous Zimbabweans affectionately bestowed upon former President and liberation icon Comrade R.G. Mugabe during the liberation struggle. For the record we don’t need PhD’s in Anthropology or Epistemology to know that Caucasians had no bloodline connection to former President and liberation icon Comrade R. G. Mugabe. The challenge that ZANU-PF has faced the entire 21st century is how to distinguish between allowing constructive criticism in the political sphere and democratising neo-colonialist activity both on the ground in Zimbabwe and in the Diaspora. During his recent visit to South Africa when President Mnangagwa hammered home the point that Zimbabwe is open for business, in actuality he was echoing the exact words of former President and liberation icon Comrade R.G. Mugabe at the Zimbabwe-S.A Business forum in April of 2015 when he was the chair of both SADC and the AU. Another crucial point that former President and liberation icon Comrade R.G. Mugabe made at that occasion was that even though US-EU imperialism were using their propaganda outlets to suggest that Zimbabwe’s indigenisation programme was nationalisation in disguise, they refused to publicly acknowledge that there were still 400 British companies doing business in Zimbabwe, which confirms the most devious imperialists are, in the final analysis, in the words of the iconic hip-hop group, EPMD, strictly business. This information also dispels the myth that President Mnangagwa and ZANU-PF’s seeking of engagement with foreign investors is equivalent to a magician pulling a trick out of the hat. What former President R.G. Mugabe also revealed was that Zimbabwe was in the process of developing a National Diaspora Policy, that has laid the strategic and tactical foundation for President Mnangagwa to hit the ground and running. Thanks to Zimbabwe’s long standing political culture that is so strongly rooted in unity, which is to the dismay of US-EU imperialism, it will be able to neutralise the regime change agenda both in the streets of the nation’s 10 provinces and in the Diaspora. Obi Egbuna Jnr is the US Correspondent to The Herald and External Relations of ZICUFA(Zimbabwe Cuba Friendship Association). His email address is obiegbuna15@gmail.com <mailto:obiegbuna15@gmail.com>