CASABLANCA. — Zambia thrashed Uganda 3-1 in the 2018 African Nations Championship (Chan) Group B soccer match at the Stade de Marrakech in Morocco on Sunday. The Cranes of Uganda were the better side in the opening stages of their first Group B game and they came close to scoring when Taddeo Lwanga forced Zambia goalkeeper Toaster Nsabata into a save three minutes into the game. Lwanga had another chance to put the East African side into the lead eight minutes before the half-hour mark, but the midfielder placed his effort wide of the target as Uganda continued to press. However, it was Zambia, who broke the deadlock in the 38th minute. Ernest Mbewe set-up Lazarous Kambole, who beat Uganda goalkeeper Benjamin Ochan to make it 1-0 to Chipolopolo. Uganda responded with a goal two minutes later which was scored by hard-working forward Derrick Nsibambi, who beat Zambia shot-stopper Nsabata to make it 1-1. The score was 1-1 between Zambia and Uganda during the half-time break following an entertaining first half. Zambia coach Wedson Nyirenda made the first change of the game nine minutes after the restart — pulling out Alex Ng’onga for Friday Samu as the Southern African side looked to restore its lead. Kambole set up Augustine Mulenga, who made no mistake in the 63rd minute as he scored to make it 2-1 to Zambia as Chipolopolo’s pressure finally paid off. It was soon 3-1 to Zambia when Fackson Kapumbu hit the back of the net with a deflected free-kick which beat Ochan with 18 minutes left on the clock. Zambia then held on to their two-goal lead in the latter stages of the game and they ran out 3-1 winners over Uganda. Meanwhile, Namibia stunned Cote d’lvoire 1-0 in the 2018 African Nations Championship (Chan) Group B match at the Stade de Marrakech in Morocco on Sunday. The Elephants dominated possession in the early stages of the game as they looked to break the deadlock against the Brave Warriors. However, the West African side suffered a blow when Pacome Zouzoua went down injured in the 32nd minute and he was replaced by Manasse N’Goh. The Brave Warriors, who were making their debut appearance in the Chan finals, then applied some pressure on the Cote d’lvoire defence with the half break fast approaching. But forwards Junias Theophilus and Absalom Iimbondi failed to convert Namibia’s goal-scoring opportunities. The score was 0-0 between Cote d’lvoire and Namibia during the half time beak. Ricardo Mannetti, the Namibia coach, made a change 18 minutes after the restart — introducing Itanumua Keimuine as the Southern African side looked to take the lead. — AFP.