Business Reporter PRESIDENT Mnangagwa’s administration possesses all ingredients and qualities required to steer Zimbabwe out of its current difficulties, the Indigenous Business Women’s Organisation (IBWO) has said. In her congratulatory message last week IBWO president Jane Mutasa said women had been the biggest victim of the economic meltdown and President Mngangwa’s rise to power lifted their hopes that his policies would eradicate poverty among women. Dr Mutasa, in the same congratulatory message, also expressed her gratitude on behalf of members of the business grouping across Zimbabwe’s 10 provinces, on the appointment of “able Vice Presidents Retired General Constantino Guvheya Chiwenga and Kembo Mohadi. “We are confident that we are going in the right direction (with President Mnangagwa) and so we are happy and want to congratulate him on this milestone of being appointed President of Zimbabwe. Our organisation believes he is going to turnaround the economy. “We firmly support President Mnangagwa and believe he is going to rebuild the economy through implementation of policies that eradicate poverty among women. “Women are excited about the good time ahead. “IBWO is confident about President Mnangagwa’s ability to deliver on the economic front considering he successfully presided over policies such as Command Agriculture Programme, which has since been extended to livestock and fisheries among others,” Dr Mutasa said. Dr Mutasa said policies such as the Command Agriculture which President Mnangagwa successfully supervised during his tenure and Vice President, helped Zimbabwe save elusive foreign currency on food imports. “We look forward to working with the new Government led by President Mnangagwa in empowering women. Women are this economy, as they say when you empower a woman, you empower the nation. They work hard to hold families together and look after children. “IBWO represents the majority of aspiring but poor business women in towns, cities and rural areas. We look forward to working with the Government to transform the economy and lives of women,” she said. “There was a lot of suffering among women of Zimbabwe with regards to access to cash and general prevalence of poverty,” she added. Dr Mutasa said it was her fervent hope that the new Government would support women and women run projects, “they formed the backbone of the economy and so do not deserve to be left behind in that regard”. President Mnangagwa’s Government came to power in November last year, following President Robert Mugabe’s resignation as head of state and the nomination of President Mnangagwa to replace him.