Elita Chikwati Senior Agriculture Reporter The Mbire community in Mashonaland Central is appealing to Government to assist in relocating stray animals that are causing havoc to agricultural activities in the area. Many people and livestock have reportedly fallen prey to lions, hyenas and elephants. Recently, a farmer in the area lost 80 goats to lions. Mbire legislator Cde Douglas Karoro yesterday said farmers in the area have lost cattle, goats and sheep to lions and hyenas. The problem of stray wildlife, he said, was not new to the area but it has progressively become worse. “Since 2008, we have been experiencing challenges with wildlife and 20 people have to date been killed by lions and elephants. “The situation worsens during droughts. Farmers are losing an average of 15 goats and five herd of cattle per week. This is a high number that cannot be ignored considering the importance of livestock in the livelihoods of people, especially the rural communities,” said Cde Karoro. “Recently, a farmer lost 80 goats after they were killed by a stray lion. Farmers can no longer go to the fields as they are afraid of the animals. “We are looking forward to the command livestock programme, but I am afraid the programme may not yield good results in our area if stray wild animals are not taken care of,” he said. School children in the district are understood to be bunking lessons for fear of the marauding predators. “Most schools are far and children have to walk between 10 and 15 kilometres to school. “It is no longer safe for children to go to school because of the stray animals,” he said. Cde Karoro applauded Mbire Rural District Council for pledging support to the farmer who lost his 80 goats. The RDC has agreed to pay $20 per goat as compensation. “The problem is that people are not allowed to kill the stray wildlife. Government should allow Mbire authorities to sell the wildlife and use the money for developmental projects in the area,” he said. Chombe village head Mr Johannes Ngondongondo expressed dismay at the way the Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority (Zimparks) is handling the human-wildlife conflict in the area. He complained that the authorities seem to be giving preference to animals instead of human life. “Authorities should value human life. People should be protected from the marauding lions. We now fear for our lives and the attacks from wildlife has left people in our area terrified,” he said. Zimparks public relations manager Mr Tinashe Farawo yesterday said the wildlife management body had only received a single report of one person who was killed at the end of last year. “We only received one report of a problem animal. We encourage communities to report to our officers on the ground. “We value human and wildlife. We have offices throughout the country and we respond to cases early,” he said