Rev TT Chivaviro Arts Correspondent Gospel sensation Reverend Togarepi Chivaviro, who is set to launch his latest offering “Matishamisa Jireh” on Monday night at New Ambassador Hotel, has partnered with Zimpapers on distribution of the CDs. According to Chivaviro the partnership will see Zimpapers distributing copies of the album to various cities around the country from Tuesday. “We are happy that we clinched deal with Zimpapers who are going to take the CD to all parts of the country. The album will be available with all the company’s vendors in all corners just for a $1 beginning Tuesday morning,” he said. The “Ebenezer” hit-maker said all was in place for the launch that coincides with his birthday as he turns 43. “In terms of preparations everything is in order and the response in terms of tickets has been overwhelming so far, only few are left so I am urging our fans to come in their numbers as we celebrate our new work and my birthday,” he said. The new offering carries eight tracks and most of the songs are inclined to the album theme which is thanksgiving and teaching psalms. Some of the tracks include “Handinyayare” featuring Oliver Mtukudzi, “It’s Not Over”, “Jesu Ndanga Ndakurasai”, “Jesus the Captain”, “Korona” and “Mwanangu Teerera”. He said they will also launch a video for the song “It’s Not Over” on the same night shot over which was shot this week. The musician recorded another collaboration titled “Matishamisa” which features the likes of Trymore Bande, Mother General, Nicholas Chirunga, Peter Mparutsa, Patience Mandizha, Tinashe Murigo and Lorraine Stot. “Unlike what we did on Ebenezer this time we decided to bring in upcoming artistes from different cities to give them exposure on this track. We hope that gospel music lovers will enjoy it,” said Rev Chivaviro. As part of his marketing strategy the album will be launched in Birmingham, United Kingdom on February 3, Dubai on February 9 and lastly in South Africa the following day. The man of cloth has been on the roller coaster since launching his 10th album “Ebenezer”, followed by “Mhepo” and “Maranatha” which is currently enjoying rave reviews.