Blessings Chidakwa and Fortunate Gora ABOUT 1 200 direct jobs are set to be created when an abattoir is constructed in Norton in four months’ time, an official has said. The abattoir would be constructed using funds from the Chegutu District Community Share Ownership Trust (CSOT). At full capacity, the abattoir is expected to processabout 90 000 chickens daily for both the local and external market. Norton House of Assembly member, Mr Temba Mliswa yesterday told Norton Heads of Government departments at a development meeting that negotiations were at an advanced stage for land to be availed for the construction of the abattoir. The Norton Town Council has already been approached. The abattoir will occupy 60 hectares of land. “I want to assure you that the project will kick start soon. There have been hiccups by the council which delayed the start of the project. You can imagine 1 200 people are going to benefit directly from this project, yet council officials were frustrating such an investor. “The project will definitely change the face of Norton (and) if you frustrate them they will engage other local authorities like Chegutu and we will have lost as a town. Immediate action should be taken since development should always be Norton’s thrust and l am also very passionate about that,” said Mr Mliswa.It is understood that council officials have been refusing to provide land for the construction of the abattoir in the last two years. Government has called upon all departments to be proactive, particularly regards ensuring the ease of doing business in the country to attract more local and foreign investors. Foreign direct investment and agriculture are expected to anchor economic transformation in the country. Mr Mliswa also said there were various life-changing projects that are already underway in Norton which have started benefiting the community since late last year.He said the community had started honey production which currently employs a sizeable number of residents from the town. “The Norton community has also ventured into honey production whereby they will be processing and packaging it at the same time,” he said.