Francis Mupazviriho Correspondent On December 29 2017, Salim Kikeke, a Tanzanian award-winning journalist with the British Broadcasting Cooperation (BBC) and presenter for the Focus on Africa programme, carried a Special Report on the looming cessation deadline of December 31 2017, for the Rwandese who had fled the country between 1959 and 1998. Cessation means that the conditions which led one to be a refugee no longer exist due to the restoration of peace and security, and Article 1C of the United Nations Convention on Refugees (1951), precisely outlines such circumstances for this consideration. The invocation of cessation is not new, with Sudan, Eritrea and Ethiopia having undergone similar processes. The interest on Rwanda is, however, astounding. In 2004, Don Cheadle led an A-list cast of Hollywood celebrities, who starred in “Hotel Rwanda”, an intended rendition to the genocide and in the process bagging accolades and a fair share of criticism. Zimbabwe is finalising the legal processes for cessation. Zimbabwe is state party to the 1951 United Nations (UN) Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees among other conventions relating to refugees. The spokesperson for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) Babar Baloch, who was interviewed on the BBC programme gave profound insights on the subject, allaying fears by some Rwandese nationals unwilling to go home for fear of their safety. Without publicly dispelling the narrative of an unsafe Rwanda, largely pushed by Amnesty International, Baloch opined that there was “tremendous evidence” of peace in the country, but, however, said those wishing to extend their stay for one reason or the other would have to make new claims procedurally and these would have to be assessed accordingly, in line with International Refugee Law, though this was going to be difficult. The reasons why refugees may be unwilling to go back home are many, including inter-marriages, education commitments, thriving businesses and other reasons and not political insecurities alone, whether real or imagined. Under President Paul Kagame, Rwanda has clutched the straws of the country’s past, with the cessation matter transcending its legal and human rights prescriptions, morphing into the country’s continuing political, economic and diplomatic efforts. Mid last year, this writer was in Kigali for an African Union (AU) fixture, which brought Government officials from across the continent, diplomats, academics, members of the civil society and media among others. The venue was Kigali Convention Centre (KCC), whose incest with the Radison Blue Hotel brought a combined architectural might defining Rwanda’s oomph for impressive high-end designs. Roland Dieterle, the German architect of the dome-shaped KCC and the “ribbon stripped” Radisson Blue Hotel says the two buildings merge with Rwanda’s “traditional past” and focuses on the future. The bright-shaped colours of the KCC, which interchange erroneously and illuminate the capital, is reflective of the capital’s verve and bristling life. At the fixture, notable dignitaries included Rwandese Prime Minister Anastase Murekezi and the AU’s Political Commissioner Minata Cessouma and Rwandese youthful former Labour Minister Judith Uwizeye. As the who is who in Africa led discussions on stately matters, which was the reason why delegates flew from across the continent, the United Nations (UN) and elsewhere, officials cavorted in endless talks about Rwanda whenever chance came. As I followed discussions, I remembered Nigerian academic Dr Chika Ezeanya-Esiobu, who wrote a glowing piece about her experiences in Kigali. Here was Rwanda’s masterstroke, courtesy of President Paul Kagame’s political organisation, leadership and vision. Members of Zimbabwe’s delegation marvelled at the Liquid Telecommunication company insignias in the Kigali, locating its roots back home and one of the country’s own – Strive Masiyiwa – depicting the new African renaissance connected by capital across the emerging African markets. Then others pointed to “Americans” who were pumping money in a bid to explain the rapid investments in the country, in the process invoking old debates about development, in a largely academic preoccupation. The Kigali City Tower, a shiny high rise building indicated the dragon’s footprints in the country through its arm China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC). The involvement of Rwandans, the torchbearers of the country’s efforts was, however, discounted, yet President Kagame has been calling for the return of its nationals, offering incentives even, as way of consolidating the national agenda. The sights of tower cranes embodied the boom of the construction industry, which was cementing the country’s upward mobility on infrastructural investments. Kigali’s astounding cleanliness, its repertoire dazzled many. Even the orderly traffic counted. Security details were present on every corner, understandably given the country’s past and possibly the need to contain non-traditional threats in the form of terror attacks, slightly frequent in the region and the country’s political organisation. The high security consciousness was apparent, from shops, hotels, even on way to the airport where each and every car was stopped and subjected to a through search, with sniffer dogs living “no stone unturned”. The service industry, including banks were open and running into the course of the night. While first-timers came with the view of the past, showed its bravado to Africa. On the final day of proceedings, delegates were taken to the Genocide Memorial in the Gasabo District in Kigali. Some few days ago, I together with another official within the establishment, who were also part of the team to Rwanda, shared the Kigali experiences with one of our former ambassadors, who were posted to European capitals mostly. We talked about the good things in the city of a thousand hills, as Kigali is affectionately known, thanks to the lush green hills, meandering roads and the spectacle of haphazard high and middle class suburbs sitting on top of hills. In most countries, this is the preserve for the rich, but not in Kigali, thanks to the terrain. As we sat there discussing, the ambassador was quiet, discerning and pretending to be detached from the conversation. Then boom, she joined in recalling how Rwandan diplomats abroad had effectively syncretised memorials of the genocide on the diplomatic calendar. This officialdom both at home and abroad at the country’s foreign missions is compelling. The genocide is a reminder of the emotive past, the nerve of the Rwandan nation state, the basis of the country’s peace and reconciliation efforts, the reference point for the country’s efforts and a bastion of resilience to overcome all odds! At home, the visit to the Genocide Memorial is a permanent feature on every summit, in the process, being like what the Great Wall is to China or perhaps the Eiffel Tower to France. Despite the country’s endowment with game parks, largely the mainstay of tourism across the continent, it is the Genocide Memorial which touches the nerve indefatigably, just like numerous memorials in Europe and parts of Asia, reminding the living about the First and Second World Wars and other more recent events of history.