Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis We thank God who has given us the grace to be into 2018. Many wanted to be in this year but couldn’t make it. O hallelujah, we made it, we made! 2018 is the year of acceleration, a year where things are going to happen so fast that you will not even understand how it’s happening! It’s a year we have never had before. Read on as we talk more about this beautiful year. Our theme scripture for the year is Amos 9:13, (MSG) “Yes indeed, it won’t be long now God’s decree, Things are going to happen so fast your head will swim, one thing fast on the heels of the other. You won’t be able to keep up. Everything will be happening at once — and everywhere you look, blessings. Blessings like wine pouring off the mountains and hills. I will make everything right again for my people Israel.” In this year that we have come into things are going to be happening in a way we have never seen before. A lot of things are going to be happening and we will mention some of them today and in the coming weeks. People are going to come to the Lord like never before! Many souls will be saved in this year. Don’t hesitate to witness or preach the gospel, it’s a good year to harvest souls. Friends, family, great, small, they will come to the Lord. The exciting thing is that not only will they come to the Lord, no — it’s a year of acceleration! They will come to the Lord and in a few months in church begin to preach to others and more others will come to the Lord. O I like it, I like it! It’s going to be fast, very fast. In a few more months they will begin to cast out devils and heal the sick. Hallelujah. Some people who thought you would never amount to anything will be surprised in this year. However, let’s pray that as things will be happening so fast we won’t get confused. The rate of acceleration will be so high such that if you are not careful the year will end leaving your mouth wide — opened yet having got nothing out of it. We need to pray that things must not overtake us. Here is another thing for 2018 the year of acceleration; some people are going to handle money like they have never done all their life. O glory! When the money comes may God help you to remain sober and to be yourself. Some may ask if they will ever prosper financially? Like I said when you get a big contract, a big order, a big promotion, a big sale, a big door remain humble and yourself. Don’t be like Mr Zongororo. Years back a man (Mr Zongororo) won lotto and instantly had a lot of money. The sad thing is that the money overtook him. Mr Zongororo would get in a public beerhall and just beat someone, a heavy blow. When the person got emotional and was ready to retaliate, Zongororo would take out a $20 bill and say, ah come on you can’t beat me back don’t you know who I am? I’m Zongororo, take this money. When things happen pray that you won’t get confused and be like the drunken man who would hire three taxis to go home, one would go with his jacket, the other with his shoes and finally the last one with him and his beer. These men were overtaken by success and soon became the most miserable and bankrupt men in the community. Also right in your personal life and family something good is going to happen very fast. You were expecting it to happen in November but it will happen in February. It’s a year of acceleration. You see when we say acceleration in order to help you understand visualise this; on a car there are three pedals at the footrest of the driver’s seat. We have the clutch which helps you engage or disengage gears. The foot brake helps you stop or slow the car down. Lastly on the right you have the accelerator pedal. This is the one you step on for the car to gain speed and accelerate. The Lord is saying to us it’s a year to put your foot on the accelerator pedal. Hallelujah, don’t hold back, it’s the season. People are going to be promoted. In church and at work there will be acceleration. In good health, in happy marriages, in prospering and fruitful families, businesses and projects there will be acceleration. You shake yourself this year and say to yourself, I’m not going to be beneath but I will be above. One thing you will not accelerate in this year is growing old. This year you will stay younger and shine by the Lord’s grace and strength. This is a good year! For with God all things are possible Mark 10:27