Minister Mutsvangwa Obert Chifamba Manicaland Bureau Chipinge farmers should capitalise on the district’s diverse climatic conditions and fertile soils to produce high-value crops for export markets, a Government official has said. Reacting to issues raised by Mutema Irrigation Scheme chairman, Mr Nelson Mwakaitechi, during a briefing before last Friday’s Plant Health Awareness (Fall Armyworm Management Demonstration) Field Day at Mutema Irrigation Scheme, Minister of State for Manicaland Provincial Affairs Monica Mutsvangwa challenged farmers to produce for both local and export markets. “There is a yawning market for such products as macadamia nuts and avocado pears out there, for instance, in countries such as China, where demand for avocados has shot up by over 200 percent in recent years,” she said. “So, why are our farmers failing to produce for such markets? “Producing macadamia nuts and avocados may also not be as demanding as some of the crops our farmers are concentrating on, yet they fetch very high returns on the global markets, so we need to broaden our scope to include such markets.” Minister Mutsvangwa said Government had the goodwill to seek investors that could partner farmers in producing such high-value crops, which would also lessen challenges of securing markets. She challenged beneficiaries of the country’s land reform programme to avoid working in isolation, but seek investors with capital to invest on the farms and develop critical infrastructure. “I challenge farmers to work hand-in-hand with all Government departments here today so that they tap into the expertise of all the human resources we have as a country and that would not only be good for the farmers, but for the country as well,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. “The President, Cde Emmerson Mnangagwa, recently challenged universities to target producing graduates that can do crucial research both scientifically and economically, so our farmers should also explore ways of benefiting from that new dispensation.” Mutema Irrigation Scheme is affected by water shortages, poor road networks and the unavailability of reliable markets. Manicaland provincial administrator Mr Edgar Seenza assured the farmers that water problems would be addressed, as he had approached a non-governmental organisation, World Vision, which promised to assist.