Mellisa Mutasa Sports Reporter NEW Black Rhinos coach Hebert “Jompano” Maruwa has been granted the nod to choose his own backroom staff by the Premiership side’s executive. The former Dynamos assistant coach during Callisto Pasuwa’s days was appointed to the army side’s top job last week and has since come back home from Swaziland where he was holed up for the past few years. Maruwa replaced Stanford “Stix” M’tizwa who has been with the team for the past two seasons before his dismissal about three weeks ago. M’tizwa was sacked despite leading the soldiers into a respectable seventh-place finish in the league last season. At one time, M’tizwa had seemed to have turned his “Chauya Chipembere” outfit into championship material, going to the mid-season break on top of the log standings with a game in hand. But things turned upside down in the second stanza of the season when he went on an forgettable seven-match winless run that plunged them into the relegation zone. Amid the crisis, M’tizwa survived the chop only after indicating to the team’s executive that he was not comfortable working with a backroom staff which he had not chosen. Resultantly, the assistant coaches, who included Maronga “The Bomber” Nyangela, Jack Mutandagayi and Britto Gwere, were instead shown the exit door. But this time around it seems the club’s executive have learnt their lessons and have given all the freedom to their new gaffer Maruwa to settle for the assistants he is willing to work with. Black Rhinos secretary-general Camble Sithole said the executive had given Maruwa the leeway to choose his own personnel he wants to be assisted by. “What I can tell you is we have appointed Hebert Maruwa as the team’s head coach. We have also appointed our former midfielder Gift ‘Guava’ Kamuriwo as the team manager. “The head coach has been given the mandate to choose his own personnel he is free to work with. “As a club, we always want to improve and be competitive. We hope to do well in the forthcoming 2018 season. We have lost some good players like our right-back Jameson Mukombwe (on a one-year loan to FC Platinum). “We will therefore try to beef-up our squad according to the coach’s requirements. We did well by finishing seventh last season and we hope to do even better this term,” Sithole said. Former Black Rhinos striker William Chari has expressed his desire to join the team’s technical department as one of Maruwa’s assistants.