Property Reporter GOVERNMENT says a massive humanitarian crisis is looming in Harare South where residential areas have mushroomed in recent years largely due to the illegal parcelling out of land by land barons to desperate low income home-seekers. Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister July Moyo yesterday said settlements, particularly in Eyestone and Arlington, have sprouted in areas that do not meet the basic minimum standards and statutory provisions of laws governing their establishment. The remarks by Government follow a rapid assessment of illegal settlements in Harare South on January 16 this year. There are fears that due to the haphazard nature of the settlements, water borne diseases such as cholera and typhoid might break out and plunge the health of residents into crisis. Minister Moyo said the situation at both Eyestone and Arlington have become a “ticking time bomb”. “The people are succumbing to the ravages of the unscrupulous land barons who sold residential stands to the people without following the relevant authorities’ permission, thus creating illegal, unsafe settlements. These vulnerable citizens had their ‘habitats’ demolished by the City of Harare authorities, hence leaving the people occupying risky areas. “The situation in these areas is not safe for survival as the people are now exposed to water borne diseases like cholera, typhoid and even moral degradation,” said Minister Moyo. Threats of cholera outbreaks – particularly is disorganised settlements such as Eyestone and Arlington – send tremors among residents given that four people have succumbed to Cholera in Chegutu. Cholera cases in Chegutu have since risen to 21. At the same time, typhoid has remained a major threat to Harare residents despite efforts by the City Council to improve the quality of water. Minister Moyo said if the situation on the ground is not attended urgently, the situation might mutate into a disaster that Government could find difficult to deal with. “The chaotic situation in Harare South now requires a holistic approach as it is gradually gravitating into a disaster of unprecedented, alarming levels. The settlements which have sprouted in those areas do not meet the basic minimum standards and statutory provisions of laws governing establishment of such. “Whilst we (are)not condoning the illegality of these settlements from a disaster risk management perspective, temporary measures to avert a looming humanitarian crisis as a result of poor living conditions, the Department of Civil Protection and its partners are alert and active on the ground especially at Eyestone and Komboniyatsva near Epworth,” said Minister Moyo. He said measures to prevent the outbreak of water borne diseases should be activated. Meanwhile, Minister Moyo said Zimbabweans must not fall prey to the machinations of illegal land barons who parcel out land without Government approval. Similarly, those that were swindled of their funds in the residential stands scam have been advised to report the land barons to Government or police so that corrective measures can be taken. Unscrupulous land developers and groups of people masquerading as housing co-operatives have also been warned that the “current wave of dealing with such misdemeanours which are of a corruption nature will be extended to them in a decisive manner”. Government has intensified advocacy and awareness programs in Harare South since January 20, to ensure that the situation at Eyestone and Arlington is brought under control.