As we begin a New Year and season, it is important for us to forecast how we are going to contribute to the well-being of the environment by planning our environmental calendar. The United Nations as well as the African Union have set aside environmental days. These observance days provide a platform for stakeholders to share ideas, experiences and insights and raise awareness and publicity on various environmental issues. World Wetlands Day – February 2 This day marks the adoption of the Convention on Wetlands on 2 February 1971, in the Iranian city of Ramsar. Zimbabwe has acceded to the Convention and has seven (7) designated Ramsar sites. Zimbabwe has formed a taskforce to spearhead national action and international cooperation Keep agricultural activities, infrastructure, housing and all development away from wetlands. Africa Environment Day – March 3 The day was set aside by the African Union in order to heighten public awareness on topical environmental issues affecting African countries. Zimbabwe uses this day as a platform to discuss topical issues like waste management, sustainable development and green economy through symposiums to allow discussion and sharing of insights, perspectives and experiences. World Wildlife Day – March 3 The Sixty-Eighth Session of the United Nations General Assembly decided to proclaim the 3rd of March as World Wildlife Day to celebrate and raise awareness of the world’s wild fauna and flora. International Forest Day – March 21 The day celebrates and raises awareness on the importance of all types of forests. Zimbabwe organizes activities involving forests and trees, such as tree planting campaigns to heighten people’s appreciation of the value of trees. World Water Day -March 22 The day was declared an international day in 1992 by the United Nations General Assembly and was first celebrated in 1993. It is devoted to conservation activities of water resources and its integrated use. World Meteorological – March 23 The day highlights the huge contribution that the National Meteorological Services Department makes to the safety and well-being of society. Earth Hour – March 27 The day focuses on the need to take action against climate change. The key activity undertaken during the hour is turning off lights in order to reduce the carbon foot print. Earth Day – April 22 Earth Day is a global attempt for international co-operation to address such issues as the greenhouse effect, the hole in the ozone layer, toxic waste, groundwater contamination and destruction of rainforests, expanding deserts and ocean pollution. National Fire week – Second week of May The week is meant to raise awareness on protecting the ecosystems from veld fires. The country emphasizes fire guard construction, establishment and training of firefighting teams and enhances community preparedness to manage veld fires. Do not let your dreams go up in smoke, prevent and put out all veld fires. International Day for Biological Diversity – May 22 The day was proclaimed in order to increase understanding and awareness of biodiversity issues. Zimbabwe focuses on access and benefit sharing of genetic resources so that people appreciate the need to conserve biological resources. Stop deforestation, stop veld fires and stop destruction of our biodiversity.  