LONDON. — For all the talk of Manchester City’s stellar season, Manchester United have enjoyed an even happier new year with five successive wins plus the sneaky signing of Alexis Sanchez from under their neighbours’ noses. Jose Mourinho’s team face what promises to be their toughest test of 2018 at Tottenham Hotspur tonight, a game where the focus will inevitably fall on Sanchez’s league debut after his impressive start in the 4-0 FA Cup win at Yeovil Town. Mourinho said Manchester United are a “happy camp” after returning to winning ways following a disappointing run of results in December, buoyed by the signing of Sanchez. After ending 2017 with three successive draws, Mourinho’s side, second in the Premier League, have won all five of their games since the turn of the year. Sanchez is set to make his first Premier League appearance for United against Tottenham at Wembley tonight after his debut for the club in the FA Cup on Friday. “We have managed to win every match in January, I think three Premier League matches and two cup matches, so five victories makes a happy camp,” Mourinho told MUTV, the club’s in-house TV station. “We are playing with a good balance. It is not easy to not concede goals because of the high quality of football in this country but scoring goals and winning matches is very important because we need points. We are playing well and we deserved these results.” Spurs are eight points behind United and are facing a fight to get back into the top four but Mourinho has no doubts about the quality of Mauricio Pochettino’s side, who were runners-up last season. “Spurs are one of the top teams in the country — not a title contender because they are too far away, but I say honestly they are a Champions League contender,” said the Portuguese. “They can reach that level. They have some of the best players in the country, a very good manager and are a very difficult opponent.” Spurs, who lag eight points behind United in fifth place, hope Christian Eriksen will return to bolster their midfield at Wembley. Premier League leaders City look to protect their 12-point lead at home to a West Bromwich Albion side buoyed by their unexpected 3-2 FA Cup win at Liverpool. Fixtures Today: Everton v Leicester City (9:45pm); Newcastle United v Burnley (9:45pm); Southampton v Brighton & Hove Albion (9:45pm); Chelsea v Bournemouth (9:45pm); Stoke City v Watford (10pm); Manchester City v West Bromwich Albion (10pm); Tottenham Hotspur v Manchester United (10pm). — Reuters.