Mark Chigaazira Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter AS the countdown to the Davis Cup Europe/Africa Group II contest between Zimbabwe and Turkey continues, Mark Chigaazira says it’s a dream come true being part of the team. The two countries face off in the Europe/Africa Group II first round from Saturday to Sunday at Harare Sports Club. The Zimbabwe side is made up of Chigaazira, Benjamin Lock, Takanyi Garanganga and Mehluli Sibanda. They are under the guidance of captain Gwinyai Tongoona. For Chigaazira, just being part of the team, is a motivation and is eager to see his game growing beyond the Davis Cup tie. “It’s really been a dream for me. I was really working harder, I was hoping I would achieve it and it’s finally a dream come true although I do wish to do very well. “I think I have prepared quite well, I have been practicing quite a lot and my game has been improving . . . it’s just a matter of sharpening my game to match the levels that are needed for me to be playing Davis Cup. “I feel great, I have achieved something, although I still aim higher. It just gives me more hope and pushes me to practice harder because now I can see it’s possible to do better with tennis,” said Chigaazira. The tie will be played over two days, a new format that will see two singles matches being played on the first day. Previously, the matches would be spread over three days, starting with the two singles, then doubles on day two and reverse singles on the third day. The limelight will be on Garanganga and Lock who are coming in as the senior players in the team. Garanganga said the ultimate expectation is to win the tie and grow as individuals. “Obviously, everyone’s expectation is for us to win and that’s what we prepare for, that’s the ultimate expectation. And then the other expectation is just growing with individuals like me and him (Lock) being in the team, I don’t know for how many years to come, and the staff, to just grow gradually. The ultimate thing is for the tie to be won,” Garanganga said. He said the focus has not only been on Davis Cup but also his whole season this year. “It’s a good thing that Davis Cup is coming like earlier on in the year, so I just combined everything, Davis Cup and my season. This is actually my first official tournament for the year and I am looking forward to it and I have worked out for like, two, three weeks now, got used to the climate and the courts. “I think everything is good,” said Garanganga. A win for Zimbabwe in this first round means they are guaranteed of retaining their spot in the group before they even go for the second round. Turkey arrived in the country on Monday and had their first session at Harare Sports Club yesterday.