Adoration Bizure Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter More than 100 aspiring actors including local celebrities turned out for the auditions of the much awaited feature film titled “Tsvimbo Yemudzimu”. The film, which tackles the clash between Christianity and traditional beliefs, is the brainchild of rising production house Eagle Eye Films, the producers of popular films such as “Deception” and “Camouflage”. The film was written by journalist-cum-film director Adoration Bizure. Some of the notable faces who turned up for the auditions included renowned radio presenter Phathisani Sibanda, Dalma Chiwereva and singer Dereck Mpofu. In an interview, Bizure said he was happy with the huge turnout at the auditions. “Zimbabwe is blessed with many talented actors and our goal is to unearth those rough gems. The turnout was overwhelming, and we hope to start shooting in March,” said Bizure, the producer of the film. He said was inspired by societal challenges on the issue and thought of putting it under the camera. “The film is based on the dilemma of a young a priest who is the heir apparent of his father’s traditional rod. The young priest is at the crossroads of fulfilling his father’s dying wish of inheriting the traditional rod or to fulfil God’s calling to minister to the lost souls,” he said. Bizure added that the film would be released later this month with a huge premiere. The young director continues to write his own script in the world of filmmaking. With two films under his belt, so far, he hopes “Tsvimbo YeMudzimu” is set to take him places. “The good thing about producing films is that one tend to learn every day. People should expect a lot of improvement on this latest production. I will get there one day, Rome wasn’t built in a day,” he said. Bizure has a knack of attracting celebrities as his cast. In his last movie, Camouflage the young producer roped in radio personality Phathisani Sibanda, Anthony Tongani and a rich cameo by enigmatic evangelist Prophet Passion Java. The movie “Camouflage” is a story of love, deception and betrayal, themes that seem to run through Bizure’s scriptwriting lifeblood and tells a tale of the extents to which people will go in pursuit of love and the objects of their affection.