Minister Shamu Blessings Chidakwa Chinhoyi Bureau Government has hailed Chidamoyo Christian Hospital in Hurungwe for being the first referral health centre in Zimbabwe to deliver HIV-free babies in the past two years. The hospital, which serves about 30 000 people in Hurungwe, is an important referral centre for areas such as Siakobvu, Kariba and Karoi. Addressing delegates at the Chidamoyo Hospital’s 50th anniversary celebrations at the weekend, Minister of State for Mashonaland West Provincial Affairs Webster Shamu congratulated the hospital for achieving the milestone. “We want to congratulate Chidamoyo Christian Hospital for being the first hospital in Zimbabwe to achieve no child born with HIV from a pregnant mother in the past two years and four months,” he said. Minister Shamu said Government was committed to continue offering the required support to the hospital. “I am aware that the hospital greatly relied on mission aid from abroad. The aid has been on the decline due to economic problems affecting the donors. In this regard, the Government of Zimbabwe is helping the mission hospital with salaries, drug supply and technical support,” he said. He however, said although Government support was not enough, measures are underway to improve the situation at all the country’s health institutions. Chidamoyo Hospital, he said, was well known throughout Mashonaland West for providing quality medical care, especially for the poor. “The hospital has over 18 outreach clinics for drugs for people living with HIV. In 2017, they served 70 783 outpatients, delivered 1 636 babies and admitted 4 911 patients.” The hospital also conducted 154 major operations with the assistance of a visiting general surgeon and anesthesiologist from Parirenyatwa Hospital. Meanwhile, Minister Shamu urged Government and mission hospitals to establish smart partnerships. The partnerships, he said, would bring about skills and knowledge transfer from the developed countries. “We need modern medical science and research collaboration between Zimbabwe and the developed countries. There is no doubt that Zimbabweans are highly literate. We need to accept that this high literacy and education has not equally translated into productivity, including health care delivery,” he said. “An improved health care service helps reduce poverty. The smart partnerships between mission hospitals and Government must continue. The aim of Operation Restore Legacy was to consolidate our right to control our destiny. The formulation and implementation of partnerships must always be guided by the principle of defending our sovereignty.” Minister Shamu also applauded the highest levels of commitment from health personnel, especially in rural and remote areas.