Engineer Takawira, Business reporter Local firm, Baldmin Projects has been awarded a multi-million-dollar contract in Tanzania to design, manufacture, install and commission a gold process plant, which will be processing 250 000 tonnes a month. The project will cost over $18,5 million. Baldmin Projects is a engineering company incorporated in South Africa. It specialises in mineral process plants, mining equipment manufacture, equipment refurbishment and plant maintenance. According to Baldmin managing director Engineer Costar Takawira, the project is expected to have an 18-24 months life cycle. “The Tanzanian tender was awarded after successful completion of a 60 000 tonnes-per-month gold processing plant at Mazowe Mine in Zimbabwe worth $15 million and refurbishment of Sabi Gold mine which had been idle for more than three years. Sabi is now producing and the team is working on the plant upgrades so that the mine will be able to produce as it used to a few years ago,” said Mr Takawira. Baldmin also intends to put up a model plant for small scale miners in the Midlands area. “We are currently working on our newly developed small plant for artisanal miners which will promote conventional methods of gold extraction and make sure the mining is formalised. We came up with the concept as means of boosting gold production in Zimbabwe hence creating more employment in the informal sector by introducing mechanisation that will help the small scale miners to increase their output,” said Mr Takawira Mr Takawira said Baldmin Holdings’ vision is to create employment in Zimbabwe and work with the Ministry of Mines in creating opportunities for small to medium scale miners. He said the company’s vision is to be the most preferred supplier in the mining industry and to also penetrate the African market, providing cost effective solutions to both small scale miners and commercial mines. A new block of offices, warehouse and workshop are under construction in the Waterfalls area (Harare) to enable the company to carry out after-sales services.