Grace Chingoma Senior Sport Reporter AS the last CAF Champions League to be staged between February and December gets underway this weekend, the subject of aligning the local league with other leagues is once again under the spotlight. From next year, the CAF Champions League and the Confederation Cup will be staged under the new calendar of September to May. The Zimbabwean league is played between March and November. “Sometime in the early 1990s or early 2000s, we tried to convert to the August calendar and I don’t know how it fell back then,’’ said veteran administrator Ndumiso Gumede. “The only advantage is that the league will be uniform to other leagues. But it is difficult in that our stadiums do not have good drainage and for us November to February are wet months so it will be difficult. “The new minister was here (Bulawayo), two weeks ago, saying they will work to improve all sporting facilities and I hope one of the improvements will be stadium drainage. I remember one of the matches at the National Sports Stadium (Mbada Diamonds Cup, Dynamos versus Motor Action) where people had to scoop water off the pitch using brooms. So you can imagine if it is week-in-and-out and many games are involved, how chaotic it can become.’’ Gumede said it is also important that the local teams remain very competitive in the African safari. “We must get over being happy with mere qualification, but aim to win these tournaments. I think the arsenal, in terms of human power, we have got and so we must prepare to be the best,” said Gumede. CAPS United board chairman Andy Hodges chairman said the change in calendar might be a blessing in disguise. “When the tournament starts, other teams will be probably in the middle of their season and we will be assembling the teams. The problem of course, they will have to work pretty much overtime. They will be playing when the season has concluded. “Way back, it was talked about how we could change, I think it is important that the clubs discuss this at their annual general meeting. They can’t change immediately. You don’t want the matches to be played to our disadvantage, but making sure that our teams are at their strongest,” said Hodges.