Elita Chikwati and Mellisa Mutasa Zimbabwe has started working towards the production of the Africa Factbook, which is meant to become a regional educational tool that enhances knowledge and the pride of African people. Africa Factbook is a book that will generate knowledge for the continent and highlight Africa’s historical achievements, among other things. The book, which will be produced by Zimbabwe with assistance from international and regional organisations, will be published in English, French, Portuguese and Arabic. Africa Factbook stakeholders held an inaugural meeting in Harare on Wednesday to sensitise key stakeholders on the roadmap towards production of the book, come up with an organising committee for fundraising for a conference which will be held on March 5 in Zimbabwe and also mobilise ideas to assist in the fundraising of the targeted budget for the project. In an interview after the meeting, Institute of African Knowledge representative and Permanent Secretary in the Office of the President and Cabinet, Dr Washington Mbizvo said the Africa Factbook came after the African Union Commission, which was chaired by the then chairperson Nkosazana Zuma, was impressed by the Book of African Records which was produced by Zimbabwe and recommended that “we had the capacity to produce the Africa Factbook”. The AU, after sending a delegation to assess the capacity of Zimbabwe to produce the book, declared and adopted the Africa Factbook as a reference educational tool for African nations. The book is also supported by the Office of the President and Cabinet, Research Council of Zimbabwe, six ministries, the private sector and regional and international organisations. “We are still engaging other organisations for resources and we are grateful that we received 50 computers from the Ministry of Information Communication Technology,” said Dr Mbizvo. “We have also received assistance from local financial institutions. “We are on the right track towards the trajectory of developing the book.” Dr Mbizvo said the book would have a huge impact on Zimbabwe and the continent as a whole as it would present an opportunity for Africans to tell their story. He said Africa and Zimbabwe in particular had so many achievements that had been documented and this was the opportunity for the continent to show its achievements in different fields, especially in agriculture and health. “A number of people have written about Africa and have distorted facts,” said Dr Mbizvo. “It is time for Africa to tell her own story. The book is important for the education system and will be used in colleges. It will create pride for Africans and generate confidence in the Africans. “We feel the whole narrative should be researched and written by Africans. The book will go a long way in demystifying the myth that Africa belongs to the Third World as the continent is endowed with so many resources. Africa has not been written about properly.” The conference to be held in March is expected to raise necessary resources for the production of the book. Book of African Records author, Mr Kwame Muzawazi said the conference would give weight to Zimbabwe, especially under the new dispensation. “We will have the opportunity to show the world that there are a lot of big things happening in Zimbabwe and are being done on behalf of the continent,” he said. “The book is also a platform for Africans to celebrate their achievements. We expect, regional economic committees, private sector and multinational organisations to attend the conference.” African Union Commission chairperson Mr Moussa Faki Mahamat and other high-ranking officials are expected to attend the conference.